Highlander FAQ
This version:  1.01
Last updated:  January 20, 1994

-------------------
*TABLE OF CONTENTS*
-------------------

0.0)  Introduction

1.0)  _Highlander_, The Movie (There Can Be Only One)
      1.1)  Quick Summary
      1.2)  What are the differences between the European release and
            the American release?
      1.3)  Is there a soundtrack available for HIGHLANDER?
      1.4)  Was HIGHLANDER based on a book or a story or something?
      1.5)  What was the drink that Connor ordered in the bar after
            following Brenda there?
      1.6)  Where in Scotland is Connor from?
      1.7)  What is Ramirez' full name?
      1.8)  How many Immortals were in the movie?
      1.9)  Who played so-and-so in the movie?
      1.10) Does the book 'A Metallurgical History of Ancient Sword
            Making' actually exist?
      1.11) What year did the duel between Connor and Bassett occur?
      1.12) Did the Kurgans, as a people, really exist?
      1.13) Why was Fasil's sword so special? Why was
            Ramirez'/Connor's katana so special?
      1.14) What other names has Connor used?
      1.15) Are there any HIGHLANDER-related books available?
      1.16) Miscellaneous Trivia

2.0)  The Rules
      2.1)  What is the Quickening?
      2.2)  Holy Ground
      2.3)  The Gathering
      2.4)  Physiology
      2.5)  Why do Immortals usually use swords?

3.0)  _Highlander_, The Series
      3.1)  Introduction
            3.1.1)  Short Episode Listing
            3.1.2)  First Season Episode Details
            3.1.3)  Second Season Episode Details
      3.2)  Biographies
            3.2.1)  Adrian Paul (Duncan Macleod)
            3.2.2)  Alexandra Vandernoot (Tessa Noel)
            3.2.3)  Stan Kirsch (Richie Ryan)
            3.2.4)  Werner Stocker (Darius)
            3.2.5)  Jim Byrnes (Joe Dawson)
            3.2.6)  Philip Akin (Charlie DeSalvo)
            3.2.7)  Bob Anderson?
      3.3)  USA vs. Rest of the World
      3.4)  List of Immortals
      3.5)  What does Duncan drive?
      3.6)  What was that drink that Kuyler was drinking in "For Evil's Sake"?
      3.7)  Addresses
      3.8)  Where in the World are We?

4.0)_Highlander II: The Quickening_
      4.1) Summary
      4.2) Revised Rules
      4.3) Miscellaneous Tidbits

5.0) The "Highlander: the Series" Drinking Game (Mark V)

6.0) Miscellanea

      6.1) Highlander home video
      6.2) Highlander sword replicas
      6.3) "Highlander III" News
      6.4) Convention News
      6.5) Highlander fan organizations and publications

7.0) TV Series Flashback Timeline

8.0)  Administrivia
      8.1)  Who contributed?
      8.2)  Where can I get another copy?

--------------------
*0.0)  INTRODUCTION*
--------------------

This is the first edition of an occasional file that is meant to
answer Frequently Asked Questions about the HIGHLANDER universe, which
includes two movies, 'HIGHLANDER' and 'HIGHLANDER II: The Quickening',
and the TV series (A third movie, 'HIGHLANDER III: The Magician' is in
the works).  It also attempts to catalog the information fans have
been able to glean from individual stories and other, official and
non-official sources.  Permission is granted to distribute this file
UNMODIFIED to other networks and BBSs.  Rights to modifications to
this file is reserved by the updater(s).

  Note: You may freely copy and distribute this guide for personal use
  provided that it be distributed in its entirety, with all original
  author and copyright information intact. Any sales of this document
  or use of it in a for-profit project are expressly forbidden,
  without the specific consent of the authors.

-------------------------------------------------------
*1.0)  _HIGHLANDER_, THE MOVIE (THERE CAN BE ONLY ONE)*
-------------------------------------------------------


1.1)  Quick Summary

 "From the Dawn of time We came; moving silently down through the
 centuries, living many secret lives, struggling to reach the time of
 the Gathering; when the few who remain will battle to the last.  No
 one has ever known we were among you ...until now."

 Connor MacLeod was born in 1518AD.  18 years later in 1536AD, he is
 killed in battle by The Kurgan, but Connor "recovers."  Because of
 this, his clansmen kick him out of the village, saying that he has
 made a pact with the devil.  In 1541AD, Juan Sanchez Villa-Lobos
 Ramirez (Chief Metallurgist to King Charles the Fifth) tells him that
 he is immortal.  Ramirez tells him that he is a member of a group of
 people who are Immortal and are involved in The Game.  Over the
 centuries, they will all be drawn toward a far-away city where they
 will chop off each other's heads until there is only one left.  This
 Immortal will win The Prize.  Connor ends up in NYC in 1985, where he
 and The Kurgan end up being the last two.  In a grand climactic scene,
 with lots of water, pyrotechnics and broken glass, Connor wins.

1.2) What are the differences between the European release and the
     American release?

At least three different cuts were made of this movie: the American
version, the European version, and the English/Japanese subtitled
version. The Japanese subtitled version has the longest running time
with 118 minutes. The American version is 110 minutes.

 English/Japanese Highlander Extra Material

  1.  Battle flashbacks during wrestling match.           60s
  2.  End-to-end tumbling run during fight in garage.     15s
  3.  Scot girl (same one that says he's Lucifer later)
      tells Connor that God is on his side before big
      battle.  Tells Angus to watch after him.            60s
  4.  3 head-butts just before Angus stops the beating of
      Connor for being a witch.                           15s
  5.  WWII Flashback/Saves Rachel (as little girl) from
      Nazis.                                             120s
  6.  ** Scene Missing From Euro Version, included in
      Amer Version ** !!  Right before Connor arrives at
      Brenda's for dinner.  Cop sitting in car outside
      Brenda's, drinking coffee.                         -10s
  7.  After Connor walks away from Duel in 1783 flash-
      back, the other guy's second trys to get Basset to
      shoot Connor in the back.  Basset shoots the Second
      (Hodgkiss) instead!                                 60s
  8.  Whacko Marine impaled on blade for extra time       10s
  9.  In the Church, Kurgan licks the back of the Priest's
      hand.                                               10s
  10. After sex scene and before Kurgan kidnaps Brenda,
      scene at Zoo where Connor breaks off relationship
      with Brenda.  Kurgan in background.                 60s
  11. Rachel says 'Goodbye, Russell Nash' after Connor
      says 'Hey, it's a kind of magic' from the elevator
      on his way to final fight with Kurgan.               5s
  12. Final fight scene.  Underwater bit between when the
     "I" and the "S" on the sign fall.                   30s
  13. ** Dialogue Missing From Euro Version included in
      Amer Version **!!  After fight, as Connor lies on
      the floor, just before he puts his head in Brenda's lap.
      She's looking down on him and he is not in frame.
      Connor's voice says, "I want to go home."

 115 mins from Opening speech of Ramirez to
  start of credits.  118 mins to end of credits.

 American Version - 107 mins/110 mins

1.3) Is there a soundtrack available for HIGHLANDER?

 Despite the reference in the credits at the end of the movie, there
 never was an 'official' soundtrack released for HIGHLANDER. There are
 reports of an orchestral version floating around and there were
 promos given out when the movie was first released.  But an official
 soundtrack INCLUDING the Queen songs was never released. Most of the
 Queen songs appeared on their album 'A Kind of Magic' (1986;
 re-released 1991) which is currently available.

 However, negotiations are currently in progress (Oct. 93) between the
 relevant parties (Davis/Panzer Productions, Queen, and the interested
 record company) to finally release an official soundtrack.

1.4) Was HIGHLANDER based on a book or a story or something?

 No, HIGHLANDER originated as a screenplay that Gregory Widen wrote
 for a screen-writing course that he took at UCLA.

1.5) What was the drink that Connor ordered in the bar after following
     Brenda there?

 Glenmorangie. a fine Scotch malt whiskey.

1.6) Where in Scotland is Connor from?

 He was born in 1518 in the village of Glenfinnan (which really
 exists), on the shores of Loch Shiel. The battle was in 1536 and it
 was between the Macleods and the Frasers. The castle in the movie is
 Eilean Donan castle which is located in Wester Ross in the Scottish
 Highlands on a small rocky island near the Ilse of Skye.

1.7) What is Ramirez' full name?

 Juan Sanchez Villa-Lobos Ramirez and he states that he is the Chief
 Metallurgist to Charles V of Spain.  When he meets Connor in 1541 he
 is 2,437 year old. He says that he is Egyptian so Ramirez is probably
 just his latest name. His sword was made in 593 B.C. by Masamune and
 his last wife was Shakiko, daughter of Masamune.

1.8) How many Immortals were in the movie?

 Five, but a sixth was mentioned. The five were Connor Macleod,
 Ramirez, the Kurgan (Victor Kruger), Iman Fasil, Sunda Kastagir. The
 sixth was "Vaselech(sp?), a Polish national" who was killed in New
 Jersey two nights before the swordfight with Fasil in the Madison
 Square Garden parking garage. Of this list only Ramirez dies before
 the Gathering.

1.9) Who played so-and-so in the movie? How do you spell so-and-so's
name?  (The following is directly from the movie credits:)

 Connor Macleod      - Christopher Lambert     (Immortal)
 Brenda Wyatt        - Roxanne Hart
 Kurgan              - Clancy Brown            (Immortal)
 Ramirez             - Sean Connery            (Immortal)
 Heather             - Beatie Edney
 Lt. Frank Moran     - Alan North
 Rachel Ellenstein   - Sheila Gish
 Det. Walter Bedsoe  - Jon Polito
 Sunda Kastagir      - Hugh Quarshee           (Immortal)
 Kirk Matunas        - Christopher Malcolm
 Iman Fasil          - Peter Diamond           (Immortal)
                         (also Stunt Coordinator)
 Dugal Macleod       - Billy Hartman
 Angus Macleod       - James Cosmo
 Kate                - Celia Imrie
 Chief Murdoch       - Allistair Findlay
 Garfield            - Edward Wiley
 Father Rainey       - James McKenna
 Kenny               - John Cassady
 Bassett             - Ian Reddington
 Hotchkiss           - Sion Tudor Owen

1.10) Does the book 'A Metallurgical History of Ancient Sword Making'
 actually exist?

 No. There are numerous librarians on the HIGHLA-L mailing list who
 have searched all of the databases for it with no luck.

1.11) What year did the duel between Connor and Bassett occur?

 1783 and the duel was held on Boston Common. The cause of the duel?
 Connor had called Bassett's wife a 'bloated wart hog'. The bottle of
 brandy that Connor brought to Brenda's apartment was bottled in 1783.
 "Brandy, bottled in 1783. 1783 was a very good year. Mozart wrote his
 Great Mass. The Montgolfier brothers went up in their first balloon.
 (hah!) And England recognized the Independence of the United States."

1.12) Did the Kurgans, as a people, really exist?

 Yes. According to the movie they were 'an ancient people from the
 steppes of Russia. For amusement, they'd toss children in pits with
 hungry dogs to fight for meat.' According to research, the Kurgans, a
 semi-nomadic pastoralist culture from Russin steppes to Danubian
 Europe c. 3500 BC. Around 2300 BC the Kurgans arrived in the Aegean
 and Adriatic regions. They buried their dead in deep shafts and were
 known as horse breeders. In addition, the term 'kurgan' is usually
 used to refer to ancient stone-age burial mounds found in Russia.
 Also 'Kurgan' is a city of over 200,000 in southwestern Siberia.

1.13) Why was Fasil's sword so special? Why was Ramirez'/Connor's
katana so special?

 Fasil's sword was a rare Toledo Salamanca supposedly worth over a
 million dollars. The katana was made in 593 BC. using a technique
 that supposedly wasn't developed until the Middle Ages. Brenda calls
 it 'the Samurai' with a tone of reverence and awe.

1.14) What other names has Connor used?

 From the title search that Brenda's friend did on Connor's house,
 from latest to earliest, Russell Nash, Rupert Wellingford,
 Alfred Nicholson, Jaques Lefeburt, Adrian Montegue.

1.15)  Are there any Highlander-related books available?

 None that anyone has been able to acquire. There was a book published
 in England that nobody has managed to acquire a copy of yet. A copy
 was found in the non-lending section of the University of California
 at Riverside. 'The Highlander' by Gary Douglas (1986), Severn House,
 London PR6054.082

1.16) Miscellaneous Trivia

 Christopher Lambert spent time with a dialog coach, developing an
 accent which sounded unspecifically foreign.

 In the European version, MacLeod says "It's a kind of magic", which
 is the name of the Queen album which contains songs from the film.

 The Vietnam vet, Matunas, who tries to machine-gun Kurgan has the
 Queen song _Hammer to Fall_ playing in his car.

 The Queen version of "New York, New York" was never released
 separately on any Queen album.

------------------------------------------------------
*2-0) The 'Rules' of the Game*
------------------------------------------------------

2.1) What is the Quickening?

  The official definition from the producers is "An Immortal can only
  be killed by beheading. When an Immortal is killed, the Immortal who
  killed him receives his power and his essence through a mystical
  process known as "The Quickening." The power of the Quickening is the
  equivalent to a major electrical storm hitting -- windows explode,
  lights short circuit, it is almost as if the victorious Immortal is
  in the center of a lightning storm."

2.2) Holy Ground

  Ramirez tells Connor "You are only safe on holy ground. No one will
  violate this. It's tradition." Their Code will not allow them to
  fight in sacred locations. The consensus of all the discussions is
  that Holy Ground is any place held sacred by any religion.


2.3) The Gathering

  Ramirez told Connor "You must learn to conceal your special gift,
  and harness your power (pause) until the time of the Gathering...
  When only a few of us are left, we will feel an irresistable pull
  towards a far away land, to fight for the Prize...  We must fight
  until only one remains..." During the movie, we assume that the
  Gathering lasted only a few weeks, at most a few months. But, in the
  TV series premiere, we are told that the Gathering has begun and, in
  the second season premiere, we are told that Connor killed the Kurgan
  eight years ago.  So presumably the Gathering will last several years,
  or at least as long as the TV series :-).

2.4) Physiology

  An Immortal appear to be 'killed' by anything that will kill a mortal.
  But they regenerate and recover. The more extensive the injury, the
  longer it takes to regenerate. Apparently facial and neck scars
  last but scars to the body disappear.  We'll find out in the 2nd
  season episode 'Unholy Alliance' whether an Immortal can regenerate
  a lost limb. (I'm still wondering whether there is such a thing as a
  balding Immortal :-) - Debbie Douglass).

  Immortals are sterile from birth. An Immortal carries the "seed" of
  his Immortality within him in life. If he is "killed," he becomes
  Immortal and never grows any older.

  They can sense each other's presence. The producers call it "The Buzz."

2.5) Why do Immortals usually use swords?

  A sword is the best way to ensure that when an Immortal takes the
  head of another he will be close enough to receive the Quickening.

--------------------------------
*3.0) _Highlander: The Series_*
--------------------------------
  HIGHLANDER: The Series

  In other times they bore other names:
          The Old Ones, The Elvan Lords, Druids,
          Angels, Demons, Gods...

  In our time they are called the Immortals.
          They are still with us.

                           ...all the legends are true.
                      (From the HIGHLANDER TV series writers' bible)

3.1) Introduction

  Heads up, movie fans. According to the producers, the TV series
  is in an alternate universe/timeline from the movies but the two share
  *some* characters, events, and rules. This means that, for the TV
  series, Connor did not win the Prize in 1985 when he killed the
  Kurgan. The Gathering has just begun and apparently it is a long
  process. There are still plenty of Immortals left when the TV series
  opens in 1992. This also means that Adrian Paul will not be in the
  third Highlander movie.

  The Premise:
  Duncan Macleod is a younger clansman of Connor Macleod and he also is
  an Immortal. The series opened with Slan Quince, an evil Immortal
  hunting down Duncan to take his head. Connor has tracked Quince to
  Duncan's since he thought Duncan might need help. Duncan has tried to
  stay out of the Game for many years. Duncan lives runs an antique shop
   with his live-in lover of 12 years, Tessa Noel. Richie Ryan is a
  young punk thief who is trying to rob the antique shop in the middle
  of the night when all of a sudden all these Immortals show up
  brandishing deadly looking swords.

  In the beginning of the second season, Tessa is killed in a random
  act of senseless violence. Her death inspires him to become
  more involved in mortal affairs. He feels he can no longer ignore the
  sorry state of the world, but must try to do something to improve it.

  Richie, killed in the same shooting as Tessa, becomes Immortal. Once
  trained by Mac, he will go off on his own, becoming a recurring
  character.

  MacLeod sells the antique store and moves into an industrial loft over
  a Dojo. The loft is a spare, masculine space; the Dojo below is a
  place where serious martial artists and warriors train, not a place
  for aerobics classes.

  CHARLIE DESALVO, runs the Dojo. Charlie's mother was black, and
  his father is an Italian. He is also an ex-Navy SEAL.

  JOE DAWSON, middle-aged, is first introduced as an unassuming bookshop
  owner. We have learned that he is involved with an age-old secret
  organization known as THE WATCHERS. The Watchers have observed and
  recorded the chronicles of the Immortals for countless generations.
  Dawson knows all about MacLeod -- in fact, he is one of his greatest
  admirers. After an initial confrontation, the two become allies,
  and Dawson will occasionally put his formidable intelligence operation
  at Mac's disposal.  Meanwhile, Dawson must confront the renegades
  within his own organization who believe that the only good Immortal is
  a dead Immortal. These RENEGADE WATCHERS will periodically come after
  MacLeod's head.

3.1.1) Short Episode Listings
       ---------------------
  First Season
  ------------
  01  The Gathering
  02  Innocent Man
  03  Road Not Taken
  04  Bad Day in Building A
  05  Free Fall
  06  Deadly Medicine
  07  Mountain Men
  08  Revenge is Sweet
  01R The Gathering (repeat)
  09  The Sea Witch
  10  Eyewitness
  11  Family Tree
  02R Innocent Man (repeat)
  07R Mountain Men (repeat)
  05R Free Fall (repeat)
  03R Road Not Taken (repeat)
  04R Bad Day in Building A (repeat)
  06R Deadly Medicine (repeat)
  12  See No Evil
  13  Band of Brothers
  14  For Evil's Sake
  15  For Tomorrow We Die
  16  The Beast Below
  17  Saving Grace
  09R The Sea Witch (repeat)
  11R Family Tree (repeat)
  10R Eyewitness (repeat)
  12R See No Evil (repeat)
  08R Revenge is Sweet (repeat)
  18  The Lady and the Tiger
  19  Avenging Angel
  20  Eye of the Beholder
  21  Nowhere to Run
  22  The Hunters
  15R For Tomorrow We Die (repeat)
  14R For Evil's Sake (repeat)
  01R The Gathering (repeat)
  07R Mountain Men (repeat)
  09R The Sea Witch (repeat)
  10R Eyewitness (repeat)
  12R See No Evil (repeat)
  16R The Beast Below (repeat)
  17R Saving Grace (repeat)
  13R Band of Brothers (repeat)
  18R The Lady and the Tiger (repeat)
  14R For Evil's Sake (repeat)
  21R Nowhere to Run (repeat)
  20R Eye of the Beholder (repeat)
  08R Revenge is Sweet (repeat)
  15R For Tomorrow We Die (repeat)
  19R Avenging Angel (repeat)
  22R The Hunters (repeat)

  Second Season
  -------------
  01     The Watchers                  93201
  02     Studies in Light              93202
  03     Turnabout                     93203
  04     The Darkness                  93204
  05     Eye For An Eye                93205
  06     The Zone                      93206
  07     The Return of Amanda          93207
  08     Revenge of The Sword          93208
  09     Run For Your Life             93209
  10     Epitaph for Tommy             93210
  01R    The Watchers                  93201
  02R    Studies in Light              93202
  03R    Turnabout                     93203
  08R    Revenge of the Sword          93208
  04R    The Darkness                  93204
  05R    Eye for an Eye                93205
  09R    Run For Your Life             93209
  11     Bless The Child               93213
  12     The Fighter                   93211
  13     Under Color of Authority      93212
  14     Unholy Alliance, Part 1       93214
  15     Unholy Alliance, Part 2       93215


  3.1.2) First Season Episode Details
  ---------------
  Note: Most of the episodes summaries are directly from the
        Highlander producers.

  Regular Cast
  ------------
  Adrian Paul as Duncan Macleod
  Alexandra Vandernoot as Tessa Noel
  Stan Kirsch as Richie Ryan


  Text from the beginning of each episode
  (spoken by Adrian Paul)
  First Form (6 episodes)
  "I am Duncan Macleod, born 400 years ago in the highlands of Scotland.
  I am Immortal, and I am not alone.  For centuries we have waited for
  the time of the Gathering, when the stroke of a sword and the fall of
  a head will release the power of the Quickening.  In the end, there can
  be only one."

  Second Form
  "I was born 400 years ago in the highlands of Scotland.  I am Immortal,
  and I am not alone.  Now is the time of the Gathering, when the stroke
  of a sword will release the power of the Quickening.  In the end, there
  can be only one."

  First Season Episode Details
  --------------------------
  01) The Gathering92102-1
  Written by Dan Gordon, directed by Thomas J. Wright
  (I)Christopher Lambert as Connor Macleod
  (I)Richard Moll as Slan Quince
     Wendell Wright as Sgt. Powell
  Duncan Macleod is roused from his peaceful existence with the love of
  his life, Tessa Noel, when he is confronted by two fellow Immortals
  from his past. Connor MacLeod, (played by Christopher Lambert,
  reprising his role from the films) an old friend and fellow clansman,
  finds Duncan after many years and attempts to convince him to join the
  fray in the battle of Good versus Evil. Connor also has plans to
  finish off the likes of Slan Quince (Played by Richard Moll) an Evil
  Immortal who has tracked down Duncan with plans of combat.  Realizing
  that he can be a threat, Duncan confronts Richie and later befriends
  the boy. The threats of Slan Quince come to an end on a bridge when
  Duncan saves the life of his comrade Connor and gains a powerful
  Quickening at the expense of Slan.
   -States the rule that only one-on-one fights are allowed.
   -Richie moves in with Tessa and Duncan between this episode and the
    next for reasons never made clear.
   -Slan uses a modern sword with a concealed 'extra'.
   -Establishes Connor as Duncan's mentor.

  02) Innocent Man92103-4
  Written by Dan Gordon, directed by Jorge Montesi
  (I)John Novack as Sheriff Howard Crowley
  (I)Victor Young as Lucas Desiree
     Vincent Schiavelli as Leo Atkins
     Amanda Wyss as Randi McFarland
     Wendell Wright as Sgt. Powell
  A Immortal friend of MacLeod's has been beheaded in his isolated
  mountain retreat where he had hoped, like Duncan, to retire from the
  fights for awhile. A brain damaged, homeless veteran is charged with
  the grisly murder. MacLeod must try to clear this innocent man and
  unravel the mystery of who has Killed his friend.

  03) Road Not Taken92108-3
  Written by Terry Nelson, directed by Thomas J. Wright
     Dustin Nguyen as Chu Lin
  (I)Soon-teck Oh as Kiem Sun
     Wendell Wright as Sgt. Powell
     Christianne Hirt as Angie
  A deadly herbal drug takes the life of Richie's friend and MacLeod
  suspects the drug comes from another Immortal. This once Good Immortal
  had long sought to perfect this herbal drug and remove its lethal side
  effects for the betterment of mankind but became enchanted in the
  power that such a substance can give him. MacLeod must match wits and
  swords with this clever Immortal in order to find the drug and destroy
  it before it consumes more lives. This episode underlines the saying
  that "The road to hell is paved with good intentions." A cautionary
  tale for all, mortal and Immortal.
   -An Immortal who is planning to use an army of mortals in the
    Gathering.
   -Establishes the rule that it is all right to spar on Holy Ground.

  04) Bad Day in Building A92107-6
  Written by Kevin Droney, directed by Jorge Montesi
     Andrew Divoff as Bryan Slade
     Amanda Wyss as Randi McFarland
     Jay Brazeau as Commissioner Comanski
  While visiting a courtroom to clear up some of Tessa's traffic
  tickets. MacLeod, Tessa and Richie are taken hostage by a desperate
  band of men, bent on freeing their leader, Slade, from imprisonment.
  Slade runs his gang with paramilitary precision, and when his demands
  are not met, he chooses a hostage to sacrifice. MacLeod makes sure the
  hostage is himself and "returns from the dead" to haunt and hunt down
  the killers one by one.
   -Duncan tells the little girl a fanciful 'story' about Immortals.
   -Duncan was shot at the base of the neck from behind.

  05) Free Fall92101-5
  Written by Philip John Taylor, directed by Thomas J. Wright
  (I)Joan Jett as Felicia Martins    (rock star)
  (I)Eli Gabay as Devereux
     Jay Brazeau as Commissioner Comanski
  A beautiful young woman throws herself to her death, only to revive
  with the realization that she is an Immortal. Through her Immortal
  senses, she seeks out Duncan as her mentor and becomes amorously
  involved with Richie. Unknown to Richie and Duncan there is more to
  this "ingenue" than meets the eye. This deceitfully clever young girl
  is engaged in a wily scheme to trap MacLeod, behead him and acquire
  his immense power through the Quickening. MacLeod must see through her
  deception in time to protect not only himself but also Richie.
   -First in long tradition of Duncan not taking the heads of female
    Immortals.

  06) Deadly Medicine92111-8
  Written by Robert L. McCullough, directed by Ray Austin
     Joe Pantoliano as Doctor Wilder
     Amanda Wyss as Randi McFarland
  MacLeod is the victim of a hit-and-run auto accident which would take
  the life of any mere mortal. After a remarkable recovery in the
  hospital emergency room, Duncan is discovered by a doctor who becomes
  obsessed in seeking out Duncan MacLeod's secret of regeneration.
  Meanwhile, Tessa and Richie, unaware that Duncan is being held
  captive, search for the missing Highlander.
   -Only time that we've witnessed a wound heal quickly (with a little
    electric spark).

  07) Mountain Men92110-7
  Written by Marie-Chantal Droney, directed by Thomas J. Wright
  (I)Marc Singer as Caleb             (movie star - 'Beastmaster')
     Wes Studi as Sheriff Benson
  (I?)John Dennis Johnston as Carl the Hermit
  Tessa is kidnapped by a band of primitive survivalists who live off
  the land in the vastness of the Pacific Northwest. MacLeod must
  utilize his own skills, honed a hundred and fifty years earlier, when
  he roamed the same mountain fastness. Duncan trails these land pirates
  while the leader, Caleb, falls in love with Tessa. When Duncan
  confronts Caleb, he soon learns that the only way to resolve his claim
  on the woman he loves is a fight to the death of the most elemental
  kind.
   -First time that a guest Immortal appears who uses a weapon (battle
    axe) other than a sword.
   -Duncan dies jumping off a cliff. His revival is very dramatic with
    bone snaps and cracks.

  08) Revenge is Sweet92109-10
  Written by Loraine Despres, directed by Ray Austin
     Vanity as Rebecca Lord
  (I)Christoph Ohrt as Walter Reinhardt
     Christianne Hirt as Angie
     Tim Reid as Sgt. Bennett
  Seeking revenge for the apparent death of her lover, a woman toys with
  Duncan before she attempts to kill him by the same means...  the
  ancient sword. Unbeknownst to her, the lover is an Immortal and is
  using her in a cat and mouse game to draw out MacLeod for their final
  confrontation.
   -Timestamps the Series as definitely occurring in 1992. The episode
    opens with a flashback with Duncan joining Tessa at a New Year's party
    in 1989 and then we flash ahead to present day 'three years later'.
   -When this episode aired it caused many fans to doubt the current
    theory that the Series was occurring before the movie.
   -Duncan seems to try to escape the Quickening before it catches up
    to him.

  09) The Sea Witch92112-9
  Written  by David Tynan, directed by Thomas J. Wright
  (I)Stephen Macht as Alexei Voshin
     Johannah Newmarch as Nikki
  When an old friend accidentally involves Richie in a drug deal,
  MacLeod and Tessa become the targets of a malicious drug dealer.
  Duncan locates the drug dealer's hideout in an old steamer called
  "The Sea Witch II." Duncan has flashbacks of a time when he smuggled
  refugees out of Stalinist Russia.
   -Fans have speculated that Alexei Voshin is gay or bi-sexual because
    he kisses Duncan. Others feel that this was simply a standard
    Russian greeting for the time.
   -First time on the Series that an Immortal is beheaded by something
    other than a weapon (boat propeller) and still Duncan gets the
    Quickening, even though he didn't actually kill Alexei.

  10) Eyewitness92115-12
  Written by David Tynan, directed by Ray Austin
  (I)Tom Butler as Andrew Ballin
     Amanda Wyss as Randi McFarland
     Tim Reid as Sgt. Bennett            (TV: WKRP, Frank's Place)
  Tessa witnesses the murder of a painter, Anne Wheeler. The absence of
  a body leads everyone but MacLeod to doubt her story.  MacLeod
  supports Tessa in her quest to obtain justice for the woman.  He soon
  discovers that the killer is an Immortal on the police force and that
  Tessa is in imminent danger.


  11) Family Tree92106-2
  Written by Kevin Droney, directed by Jorge Montesi
     J.E. Freeman as Joe Scanlon
     Peter Deluise as Clinch
     Tamsin Kelsey as Mrs. Gustavson
     Matthew Walker as Ian MacLeod
  Richie Ryan attempts to learn more about his parents, whom he has
  never known. As he moves forward with the information about his
  parents, he falls prey to a con man who needs a place to hide and a
  lot of money. While MacLeod and Tessa try to keep Richie from being
  hurt, Duncan relives his own painful experiences when he first learned
  that he was an Immortal and was renounced by the man he had always
  believed to be his father.
   -Establishes Duncan as a foundling.

  12) See No Evil92114-11
  Written by Brian Clemens, directed by Thomas J. Wright
  (I)John Hertzler as Marcus Korolus
     Dee McCafferty as the Scalper
     Moira Walley as Natalie Ward
     Amanda Wyss as Randi McFarland
     Tim Reid as Sgt. Bennett
  There is a mad, vicious serial killer loose in the city and no woman
  is safe from his demented taste for murder. MacLeod's interest in this
  case grows as he notices that the serial killer's pattern for murder
  is similar to that of the famous "Scalper Murders" back in the 1920's.
  MacLeod takes this case personally as his lover of fifty years ago was
  a victim of the ruthless slaying at the hands of the Scalper. His
  fears are intensified as history repeats itself and Tessa's life is
  threatened by the malevolent serial killer.
   -Features an antique 'Indian' Harley Davidson motorcycle and a
    clear-cut case of an insane Immortal.

  13) Band of Brothers92118-13
  Written by Marie-Chantal Droney, directed by Rene Manzor
  (I)Werner Stocker as Darius - introduction
  (I)James Horan as Grayson               (Seen in one episode of ST-TNG)
     Earl Pastko as Victor Paulus
     Amanda Wyss as Randi McFarland
  A warning comes from MacLeod's old friend Darius, a monk over 2000
  years old. He explains to Duncan that he may be stalked by a powerful
  Immortal, Grayson. Both MacLeod and Grayson were proteges of Darius.
  Grayson, using the knowledge and power he learned from Darius, became
  a ruthless arms merchant. Meanwhile, Grayson plots to assassinate
  Victor Paulus, a mortal student of Darius, and it is up to MacLeod to
  protect him. Duncan later joins Richie and Tessa in France where they
  live while Tessa takes up her new job as curator of a special
  collection of l8th century art.
   -Explores the full impact of the safety of Holy Ground.

  14) For Evil's Sake92117-14
  Written by David Abramowitz and Fabrice Ziolkowski, directed by Ray Austin
  (I)Peter Howitt as Kuyler
     Hugues Leforestier as Inspector Lebrun
  An Evil Immortal, Kuyler, has hired himself out down through time as
  an assassin... the most successful killer in all of history.  He
  strikes again in modern day Paris using his signature disguise as a
  mime. A French police detective, Lebrun, suspects that Duncan is
  connected to Kuyler, but of course cannot imagine that Kuyler once
  killed a seventeenth century baron under MacLeod's protection. When
  the policeman is wounded saving Tessa from Kuyler's men, MacLeod hunts
  down this Immortal assassin and puts an end to his centuries-old reign
  of terror.
   -Kuyler drinks absinthe, an illegal liquor that gradually causes
    madness and death. Even though Kuyler is immune to death it becomes
    apparent that the absinthe, after centuries of use, can cause
    madness in Immortals.
   -Flashback shows the first time Duncan and Tessa meet.

  15) For Tomorrow We Die92116-15
  Written by Philip John Taylor, directed by Robin Davis
  (I)Roland Gift as Xavier St Cloud    (rock star 'Fine Young Cannibals')
  (I)Werner Stocker as Darius
     Hugues Leforestier as Inspector Lebrun
  MacLeod stumbles across the trail of an Immortal, Xavier, who has
  lived in hedonistic splendor down through the ages by ruthlessly
  robbing and killing innocent men and women. MacLeod had nearly fallen
  victim to this remorseless killer behind the front lines during World
  War One, when Xavier first began using poison gas. In modern day
  Paris, MacLeod must track down him down before he kills again.
   -Shows that Immortals succumb to poisons as quickly as mortals.
   -Introduces the question 'Can Immortals regenerate body parts?' after
    Duncan cuts off Xavier's hand.

  16) The Beast Below92123-16
  Written by Marie-Chantal Droney, directed by Daniel Vigne
  (I)Christian Van Acker as Ursa
     Dee Dee Bridgewater as Carolyn
  (I)Werner Stocker as Darius
  A mysterious death at the Paris Opera re-acquaints Duncan with Ursa,
  one of the strangest Immortals he has met. Ursa is a hulking giant
  that is more beast than man and has lived in a cave in the vast empty
  wilderness of the Alps. Persecuted by men, Ursa was taken to an abbey
  as a place of refuge by Duncan centuries ago.  Ursa now makes the
  sewers and mysterious catacombs under the streets of Paris his home.
  Over the years, Ursa has listened to the music that emanates from the
  opera and fallen in love with the beautiful singer, Carolyn.  Carolyn
  however, is not the Beauty to his Beast nor Christine to his Phantom.
  She is a vindictive, ambitious woman that tries to use Ursa's innocent
  soul to murder her rival. Macleod must keep this sometimes dangerous
  giant from being exploited by this woman, who uses all of her wiles to
  turn Ursa against Duncan.
   -This episodes show that Immortals are not superior beings. That even
    someone with less than average intelligence can be an Immortal.

  17) Saving Grace92120-17
  Written by Elizabeth Baxter and Martin Broussellet, directed by Ray Austin
  (I)Julia Stemberger as Grace
  (I)Georges Corraface as Carlos Sendaro
  (I)Werner Stocker as Darius
  Grace Chandler, a good Immortal, has been working for the betterment
  of mankind as a scientist over the centuries. Her tragic flaw is
  another Immortal, Carlos Sendaro. A former conquistador and intrepid
  explorer, Carlos possesses an obsessive love for Grace which will
  admit no rivals. Sendaro, in modern day Paris, slays Grace's lover.
  When she refuses to run off with him, he pins the murder on her. She
  turns to Duncan for help and although she realizes that there may be
  only one in the end, she wants no harm to come to either of these two
  Immortal men.
   -We still haven't figured out how Grace has managed to keep her head
    all these years. She has no apparent fighting skills.
   -Sendaro is beheaded by a subway train. Duncan gets the Quickening
    because he is the closer Immortal.

  18) The Lady and the Tiger92121-18
  Written by Philip John Taylor, directed by Robin Davis
  (I)Elizabeth Gracen as Amanda
  (I)Jason Isaacs as Zachary Blaine
  A day at the circus becomes a high wire act for MacLeod when he is
  reunited with an Immortal femme-fatale, Amanda, who has always meant
  big trouble for him. This time he is in a deadly triangle as Amanda
  plots a daring, high stakes burglary and tries to avoid the vengeance
  of her former partner who has escaped from prison and wants her head.
   -Amanda takes Zachary's head and Quickening after Duncan has mostly
    defeated him. The Quickening seems to thrust Duncan away while
    enveloping Amanda.

  19) Avenging Angel92122-20
  Written by Fabrice Ziolkowski, directed by Paolo Barzman
  (I)Martin Kemp as Alfred Cahill
     Sandra Nelson as Elaine
  An Immortal vigilante obsessed with the idea that he has been chosen
  to wage a crusade against "perversion" cuts a bloody path through
  Paris, menacing an old friend of Tessa,s. MacLeod alone knows this
  killer and can stop him.
   -Shows that becoming Immortal will not cure insanity. In fact the
    shock of it can put someone over the edge.
   -Shows Duncan becoming aware of Cahill as he is 'dying' for the first
    time.
   -This episode started a long argument as to whether the Templars'
    shrine qualified as Holy Ground at one time but it's not anymore
    because the Templars were excommunicated.

  20) Eye of the Beholder92124-19
  Written by Christian Bouveron and Larry Shore, directed by Dennis Berry
  (I)Nigel Terry as Garbiel Piton   (movies: Excalibur, TV: 'Covington Cross')
     Katia Douvalian as Maya
  Richie meets a beautiful young woman who leads him into the
  world of Haute couture. His youthful jealousy causes him to run
  afoul of a world-class fashion designer, who is actually a deadly
  Immortal.
   -Richie sets Piton on fire and Piton shows no scars later.

  21) Nowhere to Run92125-21
  Written by David Abramowitz, directed by Dennis Berry
  (I)Peter Guinness as Colonel Everett Bellian
     Anthony Head as Allan Rothwood     ("Taster's Choice" commercials)
     Jason Riddington as Mark Rothwood
     Marion Cotillard as Lori Bellian
  The step-daughter of an immortal mercenary is raped by the son of a
  diplomat, and Duncan must protect Tessa, Richie, and the guilty young
  man from the mercenary's vengeance.

  22) The Hunters92126-22
  Written by Kevin Droney, directed by Paolo Barzman
  (I)Roger Daltrey as Hugh Fitzcairn   (rock star 'The Who')
  (I)Werner Stocker as Darius
     Peter Hudson as Horton
  Duncan teams up with another immortal to find out why their immortal
  friends are disappearing without a trace -- including Darius.
   -Introduction of the Watchers and their renegade sub-group, the
    Hunters.
   -Establishes the practice of the Hunters killing themselves rather
    than be held captive.
   -All footage of Darius is from previous episodes because Werner
    Stocker was too ill to appear.

  3.1.3) Second Season Episode Details
  ------------------------------------
  Note: Most of the episodes summaries are directly from the
        Highlander producers.

  Regular Cast
  ------------
  Adrian Paul as Duncan Macleod
  Alexandra Vandernoot as Tessa Noel (last episode #4)
  Stan Kirsch as Richie Ryan
  Jim Byrnes as Joe Dawson
  Philip Akin as Charlie DeSalvo

  Text from the beginning of each episode
  ---------------------------------------
  (spoken by Joe Dawson)
  "He is immortal,
    born in the highlands of Scotland 400 years ago.
  He is not alone.
  There are others like him,
   some good, some evil.
  For centuries he has battled the forces of Darkness,
   with Holy Ground his only refuge.
  He cannot die - unless you take his head,
   and with it his power.
  In the end There Can Be Only One.
  He is Duncan Macleod, The Highlander."

  Episode Details (SPOILERS)
  --------------------------

  1) #93201 "THE WATCHERS"
  Writer: Marie-Chantal Droney
  Director: Clay Borris
     Jim Byrnes as Joe Dawson (introduction)
     Peter Hudson as James Horton
     Keli O'Bryne as Lynn Horton
     Cameron Bancroft as Robert
  Determined to investigate the death of his old friend Darius (in
  the first season finale, "The Hunters"), MacLeod follows a lead
  back to his old stomping grounds in the Pacific Northwest. He
  meets JOE DAWSON, a bookstore owner with a secret; he soon learns
  that Dawson is a high-ranking member of an ancient secret
  organization known as THE WATCHERS, who observe and record the
  lives of the Immortals, passing their archives down from
  generation to generation. Unbeknownst to Dawson, his brother-in-
  law, JAMES HORTON (the man who killed Darius), has been
  recruiting Watchers to kill Immortals. We are left with the
  knowledge that other renegade Watchers may be waiting to try for
  MacLeod's head.
   -The following was printed out from Dawson's database on Immortals
    (Note the various contradictions to facts from the movie, especially
    the Kurgan's age. The writers didn't start using a series 'bible'
    and series timeline until after this episode was completed.):

      "Subject: Kurgan
       Origin: Northern Russia
       Immortality: March 20, 1452
       Sightings:
       1453 to 1535 located Moscow
       1536 to 1610 located Scottish Highlands
       1611 to 1619 located Milan
       1700 to 1755 located Northern Africa
       1756 to 1985 UNKNOWN
       1985 DECEASED (Connor MacLeod)

       Encounters:
       Stosch Basalok  1525
       Connor MacLeod  1536
       Juan Sanchez Villa Lopez Ramirez  1601 (almost beheaded)
       Aman Fasil      1640
       Sundra Kastagar 1750

       Quickenings:
       Ivan Trotski    1472
       Juan Sanchez Villa Lopez Ramirez  1601
       Flavin Parocchi 1663
       Sundra Kastagar 1985
       Stosch Basalok  1985"

  2) #93202 "STUDIES IN LIGHT"
  Writer: Naomi Janzen
  Director: Peter Ellis
  (I)Joel Wyner as Gregor Powers
     Sheila Moore as Linda Plager
     Gillian Carfra as Young Linda
  MacLeod's old friend GREG POWERS has become a photographer, and
  invites Mac to see his work. Mac is disturbed by the violent
  images in his friend's work, and is distressed to find that the
  sensitive Gregor he knew has been replaced by a hardened cynic.
  Another photograph in the exhibit, taken of MacLeod 50 years ago,
  triggers a flashback of his meeting young photographer LINDA
  PLAGER. Then, the now-73-year-old Linda recognizes Duncan as her
  old mentor and lover, convincing her nurse that she's thoroughly
  senile -- after all, Duncan MacLeod would be an old man by now,
  wouldn't he? Learning that Linda is dying, MacLeod longs to tell
  her the truth, but isn't sure how. Meanwhile, Greg seduces
  Richie into his destructive lifestyle -- fascinated by the rush
  of fear that accompanies near death, he coaxes Richie into a
  dangerous motorcycle stunt. After a confrontation with MacLeod,
  Greg snaps -- frustrated by his inability to feel any real
  emotion because of the insulation from death his Immortality
  gives him, he attacks Richie, then Linda, then fights MacLeod on
  the roof of the hospital. Only when MacLeod's sword is inches
  from his neck does Greg break down and face the truth that he
  doesn't want to die.
   -Richie does not heal quicker than mortals for he hasn't gained full
    Immortality yet and he won't until he dies in the fourth episode.

  3) #93203 "TURNABOUT"
  Writer: David Tynan
  Director: Clay Borris
  (I)Geraint Wyn Davies as Michael Moore   (TV: 'Forever Knight')
     John Tierney as Old Father Morton
     Alan Robertson as Judge Marvin Singer
     Gaetana Korbin as Jeanette
  Thirty years ago, evil Immortal QUENTEN BARNES was executed in
  the electric chair, and promised he'd be back. He's been trapped
  in a tomb ever since; but now, Joe Dawson informs MacLeod, he's
  out, and killing the people involved in his execution. Mac
  declines to get involved unless Barnes gets in his way, but when
  his old friend MICHAEL MOORE comes to town, a Flashback shows us
  that Barnes killed Michael's wife and has a longstanding grudge
  against Michael. Now Mac is involved. He convinces Dawson to
  share the Watchers' surveillance file on Barnes with him.
  However, the file isn't much help. As the prosecutor and priest
  who were at Barnes' execution are killed off one by one, it
  becomes clear that Barnes will come after Michael next. However,
  it is only after Mac finds the body of the man Dawson sent with
  the file that the penny drops and he realizes that Barnes, a
  multiple personality, is Michael -- and Mac left him home with
  Tessa and Richie! In the end, at Michael's tortured urging,
  MacLeod must kill Michael to kill Barnes.
   -Duncan performs a long kata exercise showing his martial arts
    expertise.

  4) #93204 "THE DARKNESS"
  Writers: Christian Bouveron & Lawrence Shore
  Director: Paolo Barzman
     Introducing Philip Akin as Charlie DeSalvo
     Traci Lords as Greta                 (porn movie star)
     Andrew Jackson as Pallin Wolf
     Frank C. Turner as Harry
     Lisa Vultaggio as Carmen
  (I)Adrian Hughes as James
  A mortal named PALLIN WOLF, one of the renegade Watchers who
  believes the Immortals must be eliminated, lures an Immortal to
  his house and kills him, getting the advantage by tricking him
  into a sealed room that is completely dark, then stalking him
  with night vision goggles. Meanwhile, a Gypsy fortuneteller they-
  meet in a restaurant, GRETA, warns Tessa that she is in danger.
  When Tessa is kidnapped by Wolf, MacLeod returns to Greta, asking
  for her help. But she's mostly a hustler, and not accustomed to
  getting actual visions, so the clues she is able to provide are
  meager. Finally, Mac finds Wolf's house, where Wolf is waiting
  for him. He meets Wolf in the dark room and all seems hopeless
  until he remembers a matchbook Greta gave him with her phone
  number in it. Lighting the matches, he regains the advantage and
  kills Wolf. However, as Tessa and Richie are heading for the
  car, a young junkie accosts them for money, and in an act of
  senseless violence, shoots them both. As Mac mourns, Richie
  tentatively sits up, healing -- he is an Immortal. But Tessa is
  gone.
   -Featuring Duncan's controversial trick of lighting the matches
    with his sword. Many fans feel that this feat is impossible,
    especially in the dark.

  5) #93205 "EYE FOR AN EYE"
  Writers: Elizabeth Baxter & Martin Brossellet
  Director: Dennis Berry
  (I)Sheena Easton as Annie Devlin    (rock star)
     Philip Akin as Charlie DeSalvo   (introduction)
  When MacLeod and Richie are witness to a terrorist attack on an
  Ambassador, Richie dives in like a Superhero, cocky with
  Immortality. In the resulting confusion, one of the terrorists
  is killed, and another, ANNIE DEVLIN, an Immortal, is captured.
  She swears revenge on Richie, and when she escapes from custody,
  MacLeod takes on the task of educating Richie so that he will
  have a chance in combat against her. Meanwhile, Flashbacks
  reveal an earlier friendship between MacLeod and Annie. Mac
  renews the friendship, and the two Immortals who have both
  recently lost their lovers find solace in one another. In the
  end, Richie defeats Annie but can't bring himself to kill her,
  and MacLeod convinces her to pursue the blood debt no further.
   -Richie refuses to take Annie's head. It's hard to learn to kill.
   -Duncan buys Charlie DeSalvo's martial arts dojo and moves into the
    loft apartment above it.
   -At the end Duncan gives Richie his own single-handed sword. This
    is curious because throughout the episode he practiced with a
    two-handed katana.

  6) #93206 "THE ZONE"
  Writer: Peter Mohan
  Director: Clay Borris
     Santino Buda as Canaan
     Sandra P. Grant as Asia
     Alphonso Quijada as Tio
     Leam Blackwood as Tom McGee
  The Zone is a burned-out urban wasteland, abandoned by the
  police, who figure it's easier to just 'let the animals kill each
  other.' Now the Zone is being taken over by CANAAN, a
  charismatic leader who urges his followers to take the material
  possessions that have been denied to them. JOE DAWSON comes to
  MacLeod for help -- one of his men, who was observing Canaan, has
  been killed. Charlie accompanies MacLeod down to his old
  neighborhood in the Zone and introduces him to ASIA, a nurse at
  the local clinic, one of few people who haven't given up on the
  neighborhood. After MacLeod learns that Dawson was mistaken, and-
  Canaan is not an Immortal, Dawson is ready to drop it. But
  MacLeod has seen the misery in the Zone, and is determined to
  break Canaan's hold. He convinces Asia that it's time to stand
  up for their rights, and she helps him arrange a meeting of
  neighborhood residents who want to take back their streets. But
  Asia is involved with Canaan, and she's used as bait to lure him
  to his apparent death. Canaan busts up the neighborhood meeting,
  but when MacLeod arrives and defeats Canaan hand to hand, the
  cult leader's hold on the people is broken.
   -Notice that we never actually see the elevator for Duncan's loft
    and the dojo move betweem floors.

  7) #93209 THE RETURN OF AMANDA
  Writers: Guy Mullaly and David Tynan
  Director: Dennis Berry
  (I)Elizabeth Gracen as Amanda
     Don S. Davis as FBI agent Palance
     Robert Wisden as FBI agent Werner
     Jano Franden as Rutger
     Joe Maffe as Harry the Jeweler
     Michael Puttonen as Lev Arkin
  AMANDA, the beautiful Immortal cat-burglar from the first season
  episode THE LADY AND THE TIGER, returns to town, telling MacLeod
  she's retired from her life of crime. Who can blame Duncan for not
  believing her? -- especially when two guys start shooting at them.
  Duncan thinks the guys might be Watchers, but in fact they are FBI
  Agents.  Amanda is in possession of some plates for counterfeit
  money, stolen in Germany before WWII. She's looking for an
  engraver to change the dates, figuring since she's sworn to give up
  stealing money, she'll have to print some up. PALANCE, one of the
  FBI Agents, sets MacLeod and Amanda up to take the fall for his
  partner's murder, and demands that they turn the plates over. Mac
  and Amanda are forced to "die" on videotape to catch Palance.
   -Historical flaw: the United States switched over from Silver
    Certificates in the 1960's, thus engraving plates made during WWII
    wouldn't be good for forgeries in the present day.
   -We get a full view of Duncan's apartment.

  8) #93208 REVENGE OF THE SWORD
  Writer: Aubrey Solomon
  Director: Clay Borris
     Dustin Nguyen as Jimmy Sang
     Debbie Podowski as Lisa
     Robert Ito as Johnny Leong       (TV: 'Quincy')
  JIMMY SANG, a former student of Charlie's, is an up-and-coming
  martial arts movie star. His latest movie is filming some scenes
  in the dojo. When a stuntman is "accidentally" killed, MacLeod
  is the first to realize that Jimmy's life is in danger. It turns
  out that the movie is based on Jimmy's youthful experiences as an
  enforcer for a powerful gang, and now his former boss wants to
  see him dead.
   -Dustin Nguyen is the only actor, so far, to play more than one role
    on Highlander.

  9) #93209 RUN FOR YOUR LIFE
  Writer: Naomi Janzen
  Director: Dennis Berry
  (I)Bruce Young as Carl              (TV: 'ER')
     Geza Kovacs as Carter
     Roman Podhora as Kenny
     Biski Gughese as Ricky
  CARL ROBINSON is an Immortal who MacLeod first met in 1929 when he
  rescued him from a KKK lynch mob. Back then, Carl was full of plans
  -- to be a Major League Ballplayer, to be President. But today Carl
  has given up hope. He and MacLeod meet up again when Carl steals
  Charlie's car. Mac tries to rekindle Carl's belief in himself, but
  Carl doesn't want to listen. When a white cop named CARTER tries to
  kill him, Carl attributes the incident to racism, until MacLeod
  explains about the Watchers who are hunting them. After Carter's
  partner (also white) helps Carl and MacLeod bring Carter down, Carl
  decides to give the world another chance.

  10) #93210 EPITAPH FOR TOMMY
  Writer: Philip John Taylor
  Director: Clay Borris
  (I)Roddy Piper as Gallen                  (WWF wrestler)
     Andrea Roth as Suzanne
     Ken Camroux as Honniger
     Jan D'Arcy as Betty Bannen
  TOMMY is an innocent bystander who's accidentally killed during a
  swordfight between MacLeod and the Immortal GALLEN. Haunted by the
  unnecessary death, MacLeod tries to find out more about the dead man
  -- and discovers he isn't exactly the innocent bystander he
  appeared.


3.2) Biographies

3.2.1) Adrian Paul (Duncan Macleod)

  A cross between Errol Flynn and Douglas Fairbanks, Adrian Paul was
  born (May 29, 1959) and raised in London. His family was not very
  drama-oriented and they didn't exactly know how to react when Adrian
  informed them that he wanted to become an actor. He studied
  Shakespeare and performed in school plays, but his focus was always on
  sports. He played semi-pro soccer and then travelled around Europe to
  model. In Europe, he danced and choreographed for six years and then
  moved to Los Angeles to dance and seek out acting roles.

  His first acting experience was on the ABC Television series "The
  Colbys." Adrian portrayed a Russian dancer, which was based on the
  Baryshnikov character in the motion picture "White Nights." After a
  year on "The Colbys," Adrian appeared with Tom Berenger in the motion
  picture "Last Rites." Adrian was a series regular on "War of the
  Worlds" and has made guest appearances on shows such as "Murder, She
  Wrote," "Dark Shadows," and "Beauty and the Beast."

  His wife, Meilani, is one of the 'Uh-Huh Girls," who appears in the
  popular Diet Pepsi commercials with Ray Charles. Meilani, along with
  her two counterparts, has been given the dubious honor of "Women We
  Love," in a recent Esquire magazine. Says Paul, "Everywhere we go,
  people are singing 'uh-huh'. In the HIGHLANDER, the saying is 'there
  can be only one,' so Meilani and I are going to combine the slogans,
  which will read 'there can be only one -- uh-huh."

3.2.2) Alexandra Vandernoot (Tessa Noel)

  Alexandra Vandernoot has been living in France for the past six
  years, but is originally from Belgium. She comes from an arts-related
  family. Her late father was a symphony conductor, and her mother was a
  dancer. She studied drama, earning a degree at the Conservatory in
  Brussels. After graduation, she started to work immediately in the
  theater. After appearing in a number of plays, she decided to move to
  Paris. Two years later, she went back to school to continue her acting
  education before making the jump to American television.

  Her first American acting role was opposite Timothy Hutton in the
  HBO movie 'Strangers'. She also guest starred in an episode of the
  syndicated series "Counterstrike:.

  Vandernoot lives in Paris. During her free time, she renovates her
  recently purchased country house. (Taken from the HIGHLANDER: THE
  SERIES press kit.)"

  Update: Alexandra Vandernoot left the series after the fourth
  episode of the second season. She wished to continue with her
  feature film career and did not wish to be separated from her family
  in Paris for the part of the year.

3.2.3) Stan Kirsch (Richie Ryan)

 Stan Kirsch (25), originally from New York City, moved to Los Angeles
 three years ago. "I'm an urban kid who grew up in the city with a
 sister and two great parents." His first acting experience was a
 Campbell's Soup commercial when he was 4 years old, which was
 followed by a few modeling jobs. He left the business for a while,
 but returned to it in high school at St. Paul's Boarding School in New
 Hampshire.

 While attending Duke University as a political science major, Kirsch
 worked on his acting skills with a master trainer of acting. "I went
 through the whole spectrum of acting, movement, and voice work, which
 was all geared toward Shakespeare and regional theatre." Kirsch
 performed in summer stock and fell in love with the profession. "I
 made $24 a night to perform in a play six times a week in the
 mountains of North Carolina. It was the greatest summer I'd ever had
 and I couldn't get rid of the acting bug." After graduating from Duke,
 he moved to New York, and within six months, he signed with an agent,
 got his Screen Actors Guild card and headed out to Los Angeles.
 Kirsch has made guest appearances on the ABC soap "General Hospital;"
 Fox Broadcasting's "true Colors;" and recently starred in "the Streets
 of Beverly Hills," an ABC Television pilot.]


3.2.4) Werner Stocker (Darius)

  Highlander fans grew to love the character of the Immortal priest
  Darius (who was first introduced in "Band of Brothers") and we were
  all shocked when this character was killed off in the first season's
  closing episode "The Hunters". Then we were greatly
  saddened last July to hear belated news of the death Werner Stocker,
  the actor who portrayed him. Gradually details trickled in from
  various sources. The original subplot was that the character Darius
  would appear in 5 episodes and would be killed off in the fifth one,
  the season finale. Shortly before filming was supposed to start on
  "The Hunters", Werner Stocker informed the producers that he was too
  sick to report to the set in Paris. The writers frantically rewrote
  the episode script in three days. (All the scenes containing Darius
  in this episode came from footage shot for previous episodes). A
  month and a half later Mr. Stocker died of a cerebral tumor.

  Werner Stocker was born on April 7,1955 in Flintsbach, Bavaria and
  died in May 1993. He stood 6'3" and had green eyes and light brown
  hair.  He began to study acting at The New Munich Acting School and
  later at the Falckenberg School.

  In 1978, he got his first role in a French TV movie, "Les
  Rebelles."  He then played in several German TV series.

  In 1989, he won the Bavarian Movie Award for his role in the
  film "Herbstmilch."

  In 1991 he starred in "Rama Dama" (the sequel to Herbstmilch).
  Werner Stocker was not married and had no children.


3.2.5) Jim Byrnes (Joe Dawson)

  Jim Byrnes grew up in St,Louis, the middle child of a middle class
  family.  He learned to play blues guitar at age 13-- and continues to
  play on his favorite guitar, a Gibson 1969 Hummingbird.  An eclectic
  individual, he studied for the priesthood in a seminary, and was even
  a professional shepherd at one point.  He studied acting at Boston
  University and St.Louis University.  Byrnes is a gifted actor and an
  inspiring individual.  He lost both his legs in an automobile accident
  Feb. 26,1972-- the same day he landed his pivotal "Wiseguy" role as
  Lifeguard fifteen years later.


3.2.6) Philip Akin (Charlie DeSalvo)

  Philip Akins brings to HIGHLANDER, an extensive list of film,
  television and theater credits.  A serious martial artist himself,
  Philip holds a fourth degree black belt in Yoshinkan Aikido.  He also
  studies Kung Fu and Tai Chi at a dojo near his home in Toronto.  An
  avid bicyclist, Philip has been known to cycle everywhere, including
  the audition that got him the job on Highlander.


3.2.7) Bob Anderson?

  Bob Anderson is the sword master on both of the Highlander movies
  and the majority of the TV series episodes. His career spans several
  decades and his extensive credits include 'Star Wars', 'The Princess
  Bride', and the new 'The Three Musketeers' movie.


3.3) U.S.A. vs. Rest of the World

  Each episode sold for U.S. syndication is four minutes shorter than
  the episodes sold for the European market. This is due to the longer
  commercial time allocated in the U.S. market.


3.4) List of Immortals

  First Season
  ------------
  Duncan Macleod
  Connor Macleod (1)
  Slan Quince (1) (deceased, killed by Duncan)
  Lucas Desiree (2) (deceased, killed by Howard Cromley)
  Howard Crowley (2) (deceased, killed by Duncan)
  Kiem Sun (3)
  Felicia Martins (5)
  Devereux (5) (deceased, killed by Felicia Martins)
  Caleb (7) (deceased, killed by Duncan)
  Carl the Hermit (7) (deceased, killed by Caleb)
     (there is some debate as to Carl's immortality)
  Walter Reinhardt (8) (deceased, killed by Duncan)
  Alexei Voshin (9) (deceased, killed by his ship's propellors)
  Andrew Ballin (10) (deceased, killed by Duncan)
  Marcus Korolus (12) (deceased, killed by Duncan in the 1920's)
  Grayson (13) (deceased, killed by Duncan)
  Darius (13,15-17,22) (deceased, killed by mortals)
  Kuyler (14) (deceased, killed by Duncan)
  Xavier St Cloud (15) (dis-armed by Duncan)
  Ursa (16)
  Grace (17)
  Carlos Sendaro (17) (deceased, beheaded by subway train)
  Amanda (18)
  Zachary Blaine (18) (deceased, killed by Amanda)
  Alfred Cahill (19) (deceased, killed by Duncan)
  Gabriel Piton (20) (deceased, killed by Duncan)
  Col. Everett Bellian (21)
  Hugh Fitzcairn (22)

  Second Season
  -------------
  Gregor Powers (2)
  Michael Moore/Quenten Barnes (3) (deceased, killed by Duncan)
  Richie Ryan (4)
  Annie Devlin (5)
  Amanda (7)
  Carl (9)
  Gallen (10)

3.5) What does Duncan drive?

  In Vancouver, he drives a black 1965 Thunderbird Convertible.  The
  Washington State (USA) license plate numbers are 827-KEG.

  In Paris, he drive a black European something-or-other.


3.6) What was that drink that Kuyler was drinking in "For Evil's Sake"?

  Absinthe, a milky white liquor made from wormwood and gradually causes
  madness and death in those who drink it. It is illegal in most
  countries today.


3.7)  Addresses

  Send mail concerning the series and/or the actors to either of the
following addresses:

  SSA PUBLIC RELATIONS                 RYSHER TPE
  15060 VENTURA BLVD                   3400 RIVERSIDE DRIVE
  SUITE 360                            SUITE 600
  SHERMAN OAKS  CA  91403              BURBANK  CA  91505


3.8)  Where in the World are we?

  The first 13 episodes of the first season and the first 14 episodes of
  the second are filmed in Vancouver, BC, Canada. No attempt is made to
  avoid or disguise major landmarks.  This was never specifically stated
  in the series.  It is thought that the producers of the show simply
  want it to be a "Generic, Nondescript City."  All the vehicles have
  Washington State (USA) license plates as if it were supposed to be
  Seattle.  Throughout this FAQ, it has been called Vancouver, BC.
  Though some of the fans refer to it as Seacouver.

  The last 9 episodes of the first season and the last 8 of the second
  are filmed in Paris, France.  This is specifically stated in the
  series. Filming for the Paris episodes started early in January.

-------------------------------------------------------
*4.0)  _HIGHLANDER II, The Quickening_
-------------------------------------------------------


4.1) Summary

 This was a rather disjointed movie that taken by itself was an OK
 action/adventure film, but, taken as a sequel of the original movie,
 was a major disappointment to HIGHLANDER fans. We are told that
 Immortals are actually political exiles sent to Earth from another
 planet, Zeist, 500 years ago and we are introduced to a rather
 convoluted redefinition of the Rules of Immortality to fit this
 senario. We learn that Connor MacLeod, after winning the Prize, lead
 the effort to erect a planet-covering Shield to protect the Earth
 from the Sun's radiation since we've almost totally destroyed the
 Ozone layer by pollution. And that during their relationship on Zeist
 Connor and Ramirez had becomed linked by the magic of the Quickening,
 enabling Ramirez to come whenever Connor calls.

 Twenty-five years pass before we encounter Macleod again, now an old
 man, rambling along, living out his remaining years, at ease with the
 fruits of his past glory as a world reknown scientist. The Earth now
 has a universal climate of moderately hot and humid due to the
 hothouse effect caused by years under the Shield. The corporation
 that maintains the Shield has grown into an all-powerful tyrant that
 resists any threat to its continued existance, even though some have
 started to suspect that the Ozone layer has now repaired itself and
 the Sheild Corporation prefers to continue it's monopoly as the
 world's energy provider and saviour. A terrorist organization called
 Cobalt, headed up by Louise Marcus, is currently conducting raids on
 the Shield installations trying to obtain concrete evidence of the
 Ozone layer's condition.

 After Louise acquires the evidence, she seeks out the elderly
 Macleod, in hope that he can do something about taking down the
 Shield.  Meanwhile back on Zeist, General Katana becomes anxious
 that, now that Macleod has 'Won' the Prize, that he'll return to his
 home planet to resume leadership of the rebellion there. So he
 transports two goons to Earth to kill Macleod once and for all. They
 attack the elderly Macleod and after a long dramatic, and sometimes
 airbourne, battle, complete with pyrotechnics, Macleod defeats the
 two goons. During the battle Connor calls out for Ramirez. Just at
 the end of the battle a semi-tractor trailer hauling a tankload of
 some sort of highly volitile fuel breaks free and crashes into the
 victorious Macleod. Especially distinctive is the imagery of the huge
 pair of lips painted on the end of the trailer as it careens toward
 him, to give him the 'kiss of death' as it explodes. A rejuvenated
 Macleod walks out of the flames to greet the dumbfounded Louise
 Marcus.
 Connor's 'call' bounces off the Shield to Glencoe, Scotland
 and resurrects Ramirez. He suddenly appears on the stage of a
 production of Hamlet, just as the actor protraying Hamlet starts the
 soliloquy with the skull of Yoric. Once Ramirez realizes that he is
 on a stage in the middle of a play he bows and exits gracefully,
 absconding with the actor's sword. {Curiously he uses this sword,
 presumably a stage prop, as a real weapon later while dueling with
 Connor} As he walks backstage to the theater exit, he spies himself
 in a mirror, flexes his neck, and comments "Rather glad the magic
 works" as he reassures himself that he is now whole again. After
 encountering some of the wonders of the twentieth century, Ramirez
 makes his way to a tailor to get a new suit since his clothes are
 somewhat worse for wear after his final battle with the Kurgan in a
 crumbling castle. He is greeted by the propietor with "We are the
 oldest gentlemen's tailor in Scotland" to which he replies "Well then,
 I've come to the right place; since I am, without a doubt, the oldest
 gentleman in Scotland." This results in one of the funnier sequences
 in the movie as a whole shop full of tailor hurry about to complete
 Ramirez' suit in one afternoon for the price of his huge pearl
 earring (hanging from his _pierced_ ear).

 Back on Zeist, General Katana realizes that his henchmen have failed
 so he transports himself to Earth to take care of things in person.

 He proceeds to the Shield Corporation and take over the Board of
 Directors by a demonstration of his power.

 Meanwhile, Ramirez travels to New York and rejoins Connor. Together
 with Louise they go to MAX, a maximum security prison controlled by
 the Shield Corp, to rescue Alan Newman, Connor's friend who helped
 design and build the Shield.

 While there, they are trapped in a room with a large deadly fan
 bearing down on them, ready to slice them to pieces. Ramirez gives his
 life by using the concentrated 'magic' of his Quickening to hold the
 fan above their heads for a few moments while Connor and Louise make
 their escape.

 Connor and Louise fight their way to the main Beam room where Connor
 battles General Katana to the death. Victorious, he steps into the
 Shield Beam and destroys the Shield, restoring the world to normal
 sky and a normal Ozone layer.


4.2) The Revised Rules of Immortality

 In Connor's house Louise restates the rules that Connor has told her
 to see if she has them correct:

 Louise:
 "OK. Now let me just see if I cant get this straight. You come from
 another planet. And you're mortal there. But you're immortal here,
 until you kill all the guys from there who have come here -- and then
 you're mortal here. Unless, you go back there -- or some more guys
 from there come here. In which case you become Immortal here -- again.

 Connor:
 "Something like that."

 Louise:[sardonically]
 "Of course, it would be 'something like that,' wouldn't it."



4.3) Miscellaneous tidbits

 Ramirez says that he is 'the chief metallurgist of King Philip of
 Spain' rather than King Charles V as in the first movie.

 Connor drives an off-white Porsche convertible, though it is a
 different model from the one used in HIGHLANDER I.

 When General Katana first arrives on our planet, he is the first
 Immortal to exhibit the snapping and popping of re-aligning and
 healing bones after a 'fatal' fall when he crashes to Earth, or rather
 through it, into the subway car.

 Katana reminds Connor of one of the Rules "Remember the Golden Rule,
 Highlander. We must never fight on Holy Ground."

 In contrast to the first movie, Immortals actually seem to die from
 'fatal' wounds, but recover quickly.

 After they recover from being shot to pieces entering MAX, Connor
 proudly counts 108 bullet holes and then is outdone when Ramirez
 announces that he got a total of 112.

 When they procede to the lower levels of MAX, Ramirez has his sword
 from the first movie (presumably Connor returned it to its former
 owner after their duel at his apartment) and Connor carries the sword
 he acquired from one of the Zeistian goons. Ramirez' sword is with him
 when Louise and Connor leave him to his death in the giant fan room,
 standing stuck in the floor.  But later as Louise and Connor flee
 through MAX, Connor sometimes has the Zeistian sword and sometimes has
 Ramirez' sword. During the final battle with Katana, Connor fights
 with Ramirez' katana.

--------------------------------
*5.0) _Highlander: The Series_ Drinking Game*
--------------------------------
  by Lady Johanna Constantine
  Mark V - July 29, 1993

  This game was born one evening over Spring break when the author was
  showing her friend all the episodes she had on tape.  They were viewed
  consecutively over a 9 hour period, very late at night, in Carbondale,
  Illinois.  Oddly enough, no alcohol was involved, and the author is
  ashamed to admit she came up with mark I completely sober.

  Additions and corrections from all the fine folks on USENET, a few
  from "The Raven" (a Forever Knight letterzine), and a woman in Cleveland
  who shall be known only as Maddog.

  Units of measurement

  One Drink = one swallow or sip.  Or, if you are feeling really daring,
  m&m's or Reeses peanut butter cups can be substituted for beverages,
  if you prefer to be able to walk the following morning.

  Vocabulary notes

  immie = USENET slang for a Highlander-style immortal

  *the* leather jacket = That black, dimensionally transcendental
  leather jacket that Duncan hides 3 feet of steel yet is still able to
  do jumps, kicks, and rolls without any sign of the damn thing.

  dimensionally transcendental = does the word TARDIS mean anything to
  you? ie, bigger on the inside than on the outside.

  Masamune = The Japanese guy mentioned from the movie who made
  Ramirez's sword, not to be confused with Masamune Shirow (no Appleseed
  here, folks)

  warning: this game has apparently caused people to burst into audible
  laughter.  If you are in a public place, proceed with caution.  You
  have been warned.


  Someone who is supposedly American sounds suspiciously Canadian for
  some reason - One drink

  Someone who is watching the episode with you suddenly remarks "Hey,
  that looks like Vancouver." - One drink

  You point out the Washington State license plates to them in an
  attempt to assist the suspension of disbelief - Three drinks

  Duncan kisses Tessa - One drink

  Duncan tells Richie to stay, and Richie ignores him - One drink

  A rearranged "Who Wants to Live Forever?" is used for incidental music
  - One drink

  A Queen song is playing in background - One drink

  An immie says "Who wants to live forever?" - One drink

  A mortal says "Who wants to live forever?" - One drink

  Randi or the law enforcement officer of your choice says "What are
  you, MacLeod?  FBI? CIA?" or any variation thereof - Two drinks

  Tessa works on a sculpture - Two drinks

  Tessa is threatened by an immie - One drink

  Tessa is threatened by a mortal - One drink

  A sword is drawn - One drink

  That sword is a katana/daito - One drink

  That sword is a Masamune katana/daito (other than Duncan's) - Two
  drinks

  Duncan meets an immie on holy ground - One drink

  Duncan meets with Darius - One drink

  Duncan wears *the* leather jacket - One drink

  Duncan is wearing *the* leather jacket and suddenly whips out his
  katana - Two drinks (where *does* he hide it?)

  Duncan wears any of his numerous trenchcoats - One drink

  Duncan says "I am Duncan MacLeod of the clan MacLeod." - Two drinks

  Duncan speaks with a Scots accent - One drink

  Duncan says "there can be only one" - Two drinks
  (Three drinks if he says it and then doesn't take their head)

  Any other immie says "there can be only one" - One drink

  Duncan wears his hair down - One drink

  Duncan wears his hair down in a sequence other than a flashback - Two
  drinks

  A flashback starts - One drink

  That flashback involves hair extensions of any kind - Two drinks

  A flashback ends - One drink

  You are in one of the cities that edits the episodes heavily and you
  hear the sound effect of a flashback starting, but then there is no
  flashback - Two drinks

  An immortal woman is introduced - One drink

  That immortal woman was one of Duncan's lovers - Two drinks

  That immortal woman introduced is one whom Duncan hasn't slept with -
  Four drinks (it's so rare)

  Duncan senses another immie (Quickening/spider sense) - Two drinks

  Duncan draws blood - One drink

  Duncan is wounded - One drink

  Duncan beheads another immie - Three drinks

  They actually show the headless corpse - Four drinks

  Duncan lets another immie live - Two drinks

  Duncan uses something other than a sword to parry (ie: wood, a pipe, a
  body part, etc.) - One drink

  Duncan uses a sword that is not his Masamune katana - Two drinks

  Duncan is witness to a crime - One drink

  A rock singer guest stars as an immie - Four drinks

  Duncan takes after someone at a sprint - One drink

  Duncan takes his shirt off - Four drinks

  One of LeBrun's officers speaks perfect, unaccented English - Three
  drinks

  One of LeBrun's officers' voices is looped in by someone who speaks
  perfect, unaccented English - One drink

  Someone in Paris starts a conversation in English for no apparent
  reason save that subtitles would cost too much, and might be
  distracting - Two drinks

  Duncan uses the phone *while* he is also using the modem - Three
  drinks

  There are more than two immies in the same episode - One drink (this
  includes Duncan and Darius)

  There are more than two immies in the same scene - Two drinks

  There are more than three immies in the same episode - Three drinks

  There is more than three immies in the same scene - Four drinks

  Richie refers to Duncan as "Mac" - One drink

  Tessa refers to Duncan as "Mac" - Two drinks
  (after the pilot, she almost never does this.  Take care while
  watching "The Gathering", and do not operate heavy machinery
  afterwards.  This may include your vcr)

  Richie tries to speak French - One drink for every word correct


  Questions for the girls:

  You are watching the show with a guy who makes a lewd comment about
  Alexandra, and you are forced to hit him - One drink

  You make a lewd comment about Adrian, and one of the guys reminds you
  he is married - One drink

---------------------
*6.0)  MISCELLANEA*
---------------------

6.1)  Highlander home video (available in USA)

 Currently offered in the U.S. market are three Highlander home videos.

  1) "Highlander", (original movie) available on VHS tape and laserdisc.

  2) "Highlander II, The Quickening" available on VHS tape and
     laserdisc.

  3) "Highlander: The Gathering", a feature length video (VHS tape)
     containing the first and eighth episode (edited together) from
     the first season of the TV Series. Hemdale, Inc. owns the home
     video rights to the rest of the first season and plans to offer
     the rest of the episodes in the future for retail purchase.


6.2)  Highlander sword replicas

 Note: The swords, Japanese style katanas, used by Connor in the movies
 and by Duncan in the series are noticably different. The dragon head
 on Connor's sword is rendered in the Chinese style with a wide rounded
 head (similar to the dragon used in the Chinese New Year's parades)
 whereas the dragon head on Duncan's sword has an elongated head
 rendered in the Japanese style. In addition, Connor used a traditional
 katana with a leather-wrapped handle in "The Gathering" the pilot
 episode.

  1) A small North Carolina company called Swordmasters, a licensed
     dealer for Marto USA (sword supplier for the Series), offers a
     replica of Duncan's katana ("The Gathering" fanclub members
     qualify for a special discount). Other swords from the series are
     available.

     The Dragon Head Katana is a mass produced replica.  The blade is
     420 Stainless Toledo Steel.  The balance point is 3 inches from
     the hand guard.  To cut costs it's scabbard is black aluminum.
     The sword will be shipped 'live', which means sharpened. The
     swords are considered decorative only and not for general use.
     For more information contact Diane Waldier at SWORDMASTERS,
     PO BOX 124, GARNER, NC, 27529, 1-800-210-7800


  2) The Noble Collection is supposed to be offering a sword
     replica similar to Connor's/Ramirez' katana from the Highlander
     movies.  The address is; The Noble Collection, P.O. Box 831,
     Merrifield, VA, 22116.  Customer Service phone # is: (703)
     242-8752.  Catalogs cost $3.00.


6.3) "Highlander III" News

 Filming of "Highlander III: The Magician" started on Jan 8, 1994 in
 Montreal, Canada. Location sequences will be filmed in New York and
 Scotland. The film will star Christopher Lambert, Mario Van Peebles,
 and Debra Unger.

 The story begins 300 years ago in, Japan, as MacLeod and the Magician
 head to a mystic mountain in search of a swordmaker who also has the
 power of illusion. During a struggle, the mountain is destroyed and
 the Magician and two other Immortals are buried for hundreds of years.
 An archaeologist, digging in the ruins, releases the Immortals in the
 present day.


6.4) Convention News

 "THE GATHERING," the HIGHLANDER fan club, has been working on
 the first OFFICIAL HIGHLANDER CONVENTION. The convention will be
 October 7th, 8th & 9th of 1994 in Denver, Colorado.  Tentative guests
 so far are Adrian Paul, Stan Kirsch, and Bill Panzer.  They are
 tentative only because we have not sent them the contracts, they have
 agreed to attend.

 Because things are just starting to happen, Krystmas Tarr, the club
 director, asks that everyone interested in attending, please send a
 SASE to the club address for more info as it becomes available.

 ****************************************************************
 THE GATHERING - THE OFFICIAL HIGHLANDER FILMS AND SERIES FAN CLUB
 PO BOX 123
 AURORA CO 80040-0123
 ****************************************************************

6.5) Highlander fan organizations and publications

 THE GATHERING - THE OFFICIAL HIGHLANDER FILMS AND SERIES FAN CLUB
 PO BOX 123             For membership information send a SASE.
 AURORA CO 80040-0123

 HIGHLA-L      An electronic mailing list available on Internet and
               BITNET for flame-free discussion of Highlander (the
               movies and the TV series), the actors, the plots, and
               anything else related. For more information send an
               email message to Debbie Douglass <ddoug@DL5000.BC.EDU>.


 HIGHLANDER BUZZ        An open discussion letterzine for fans to voice
 c/o Valerie Meachum    their feelings and opinions on HIGHLANDER. Send
 1914 DEBORAH COURT     a SASE for more information. 6 issues per year.
 COLUMBUS OH 43229


 "THISTLE AND SABRE"         A HIGHLANDER fanzine looking for quality
 Robin Schindler             fiction, poetry, and artwork relating to
 15982 ATITLAN DRIVE         the syndicated TV series or the original
 HACIENDA HEIGHTS CA 91745   movie. For submission or price and ordering
     or                      information send a SASE to Robin or Christine.
 Christine Reynolds
 1539 LODGE STREET
 ALCOA TN 37701


 IMMORTAL TALES!       A fanzine base upon HIGHLANDER is seeking
 Mary Anne McKinnon    submissions of fiction, poetry, and art based
 245 BLUNK AVENUE      upon the movie or the television series.
 PLYMOUTH MI 48170     Submission deadline is Jan. 31, 1994. Send SASE for
                       more information.

---------------------
*7.0)  Series Flashback Timeline*
---------------------

By Velia Tanner and Julie Beamer

FLASHBACK TIMELINE

AS OF 11/12/93

1592           MacLeod's birth                   92102   THE GATHERING
                                                         (dialogue)

C. 1625       Scottish Highlands                 92106   FAMILY TREE
              MacLeod becomes Immortal

1640's?       French Countryside/Rural Abbey     92123   BEAST BELOW
              MacLeod is an armored soldier

1640's?       Italy w/Fitzcairn                  92126   THE HUNTERS
              MacLeod is a Duke's bodyguard

C. 1660?      European Countryside               92120   SAVING GRACE
              MacLeod meets Grace when she
              delivers a baby

C. 1680'S     China                              92108   ROAD NOT TAKEN
              MacLeod and Kiem Sun meet                  (dialogue)

1728          London-Dover Road                  92109   REVENGE IS SWEET
              MacLeod protects fellow coach
              passengers from Reinhardt

C. 1740'S     Constantinople                     92121   LADY & TIGER
              Amanda gets MacLeod in hot water           (dialogue)

C. 1780'S     China                              92108   ROAD NOT TAKEN
              MacLeod visits Kiem Sun on
              holy ground

C. 1783?      French Chateau                     92117   FOR EVIL'S SAKE
              MacLeod is bodyguard to a Baron,
              meets Kuyler

1786?         Paris                              92124   EYE OF BEHOLDER
              MacLeod and Piton whoring and
              dueling

1803           English Palace                    92124   EYE OF BEHOLDER
               MacLeod spares Piton's life

1804           Bavarian Inn                      92121   LADY & TIGER
               Macleod, living with Amanda,
               has just returned from Munich

EARLY         Gypsy Camp                        93204 THE DARKNESS
l9TH CENT.    Carmen tells MacLeod he will
              never marry

1815          French Countryside                 92125   NOWHERE TO RUN
              MacLeod is a Napoleonic soldier

1815          Waterloo                           92118   BAND OF BROTHERS
              MacLeod meets Darius

1816          Paris w/Darius                     92118   BAND OF BROTHERS
              MacLeod leaves for America

C. 1835       London w/Connor                    92102   THE GATHERING
                                                         (dialogue)

C. 1838       Paris                              92120   SAVING GRACE
              Grace leaves for South America

C. 1840       Pacific Northwest Mountains        92110   MOUNTAIN MEN
              MacLeod learns tracking from
              Carl the Hermit

1863          American South                     92103   THE INNOCENT MAN
              MacLeod is a Union Captain

1866          Annapolis, Maryland                93210   EPITAPH FOR TOMMY
              MacLeod's mortal lover is
              killed by a rival

C. 1868       American Indian Encampment         92102   THE GATHERING
              (Holy Ground)
              MacLeod's village is massacred

1880'S        American West                     93202    STUDIES IN LIGHT
              MacLeod helps Gregor, a
              doctor, during an epidemic

1905          New York City                     93208    REVENGE OF SWORD
              MacLeod's fruitseller friend
              is killed by gangsters

1917          WW I Battlefield (The Somme)      92116    TOMORROW WE DIE
              MacLeod is an ambulance driver

1919          Ireland                           93205    EYE FOR AN EYE
              MacLeod refuses to join
              Annie Devlin's "cause"

1920          Pennsylvania Mining Town          93206    THE ZONE
              MacLeod tries to convince
              striking miners not to follow
              a dangerous leader

1921          Home City (Asylum)                93203    TURNABOUT
              MacLeod 'saves' (he thinks)
              Michael Moore from Quenten
              Barnes

1921          Home City (Theater)               92114    SEE NO EVIL
              MacLeod defeats Immortal
              serial killer Marcus

1926          American Southwest                92121    LADY & TIGER
              MacLeod encounters Amanda                  (dialogue)
              while she tours with the circus

1926          Louisiana Bayou                   93209    RUN FOR YOUR LIFE
              MacLeod saves Carl Robinson
              from the KKK

1936          Berlin                            93207   RETURN OF AMANDA
              MacLeod smuggles a scientist
              out of Germany with Amanda's
              'help.'

1938           Leaving Soviet Union              92112   SEA WITCH
               MacLeod tries to smuggle out
               Jewish refugees; Voshin betrays
               them

1938           American City                     93202   STUDIES IN LIGHT
               MacLeod gets involved with
               mortal photographer Linda Plager

1939/45?      France                             92116   TOMORROW WE DIE
              MacLeod is with the French
              Resistance

1954          American South                     93209   RUN FOR YOUR LIFE
              MacLeod meets Carl Robinson
              in a segregated diner

1980          Paris                              92117   FOR EVIL'S SAKE
              MacLeod fights Kuyler; meets
              Tessa when he jumps in her
              Bateau Mouche

---------------------
*8.0)  ADMINISTRIVIA*
---------------------

8.1)  Who Contributed?

The FAQ is maintained by Debbie Douglass.

A lot of the information has been gratuitously plagiarized from the
'Net.  Following are the names of the people I *do* have.  Many thanks
to all of them.  Sorry to those who have been inadvertently excluded.
Sorted more or less alphabetically, they are: Catherine Beckstead,
Trevor Boyce, Lady Johanna Constantine, William Dieterichm, Janet A
Dornhoff, Katherine Emblom, Stacey Epstein, Sean Eric Fagan, Josh
Geurink, J Bruce Howie, Stevens Jason, Dan Johnson, Susan Johnson,
Rick Jones, Joe Kiniry, Jimmy Kung, Kathy Madison, William G Martin,
Lab Master, Heath W McCarthy, Selma McCrory, Margaret Newman, Morpheus
Nosferatu, Doug Oke, JJ Pierson, Christine Reynolds, Jeff Rupley,
Phillip D Russell, Rick Savoia, Jeff Schneiter, Cherie Slasor, Ross
Smith, Paul Tyma, Jeff Vavasour, Michael Vilain, Robert W Welham,
Howard Wilson, Jonathan Young, Akane, Jeff, Kane, Karhu, 01fortec,
cate3, IO20746, Lezlie Shell, ma_saunders, ST34675, sandman, G.E.
Rule, Lab Master, Mike Andersson, Bill Reeves, Obie Slotterbeck,
Roderick Lee (also known as Profess'nal Agitator), Jonathan Blum, Dave
Romas, Lee Whiteside, Jeff Hansen, Velia Tanner, Krystmas Tarr (director of the
fanclub), and numerous others.

Additional information gratuitously plagiarized from the Net and
HIGHLA-L.

8.2)  Where can I get another copy of the FAQ?

For the time being, just ask me, Debbie Douglass <ddoug@DL5000.bc.edu>.
I'll try to post this with some semblance of regularity.
