
Author: Anthony Chipoletti
        2111 Leishman Avenue
        Arnold, PA 15068-2117
        Phone: (412) 337-4781


Android, Age One is a science fiction adventure based on the real
life and death of a child with leukodystrophy. The setting is the
writer's idea of how a recent discovery about human genetics may
have happened. The mitachondrial structures in human cells indicate
that as few as two women, perhaps more than 100,000 years ago, gave
their genetic heritage to every human on earth today.

A journal which records my experiences up to the time I wrote Android
appears after the story.

Introduction:

Android, Age One is a science fiction adventure based on a real event.

The author created the character, Android, from a child born with a
genetic anomaly called leukodystrophy. The trait occurs in the nuclear
family of the writer.

The fictional setting for the story reflects recent studies tracing
human female mitachondrial cell structures. The studies indicated that
all humans living now are descended from as few as two females who
lived on earth more than 100,000 years ago.

       (C) Copyright 1993. All rights reserved. You may bundle this
       file to upload it or transfer it to a disk for the purpose of
       sharing. Critics or other journalists may excerpt freely for
       publishing comments (hopefully favorable) about the story or
       to urge Hollywood to make a movie about it.

       If you register, I cannot promise that I will do anything to
       acknowledge your gift. I am not a tax deduction as far as I
       know, and many people my age are already in the next life.
       I do write interesting letters, though, and I have a lot of
       outstanding friends. I hope you will consider becoming one.

       Author: Anthony Chipoletti
               2111 Leishman Avenue
               Arnold, PA 15068-2117
               Phone: (412) 337-4781

       If you are able to share a cash gift, please send $25 or
       a fair amount of your choice to the above address.

       If you have already sent a gift, may you be richly rewarded.


The Story:

        Android is a child born to Onion Deergada and Noore Giandade.

        There is a hidden anagram message in the story. See panel below.

                           Table of Contents

       Chapter 1      Onion's Run                      200,075 years ago

       Chapter 2      The Tremors and the Trek         200,085 years ago

       Chapter 3      Onion's Motherhood               200,075 years ago

       Chapter 4      Onion's New Husband              200,060 years ago

       Chapter 5      Onion's Father as a Young Man    201,015 years ago

       Chapter 6      Onion's Childhood                201,005 years ago

       Chapter 7      Onion's Pregnancies              200,083 years ago

       Chapter 8      Onion's Brother                  200,082 years ago

       Chapter 9      The Race                         200,081 years ago

       Chapter 10     The Funeral and Marriage         200,080 years ago

       Chapter 11     The Reunion and Remarriage

       *****************************************************************



       Chapter One - Onion's Run - 200,075 years ago

        Onion Deergada jogged gently along a quiet path in the pine
        forest. Cool air floated blousily past her trim figure. Her
        thoughts refreshed themselves. Android died five years ago,
        at the age of three, however the memory of his sleeping body
        pressed upon her shoulder even now.

        A more recent memory flashed into the peaceful path. Irene
        and Dare ... Onion knew her speed would never match Irene's.
        Still, the thought of having Dare to herself was compelling.
        Her marriage to Noore failed since Android's death. She and
        Noore were unable to conceive a divorce.

        "Mom!"  Nira called.

        "What are you doing here?" Onion resisted the intrusion.

        "We're going swimming. Do you want to go with us?"

        "Gram is bringing Rode home soon. I'll have to watch him."

        Onion felt a chill. She knew Rand would be home alone too.


       Chapter Two - The Tremors and the Trek - 200,085 years ago

        Daily, for almost six months, strong tremors shook the earth.
        Large calderas were erupting thousands of miles west of Onion's
        village. The high winds carried the dust eastward.

        Unable to control his direction, Noore Giandade sailed far to
        the east of his home. His small craft was at sea when the first
        wave of tremors started. Powerful currents from the west forced
        Noore's path for hundreds of miles. He landed at Negro Coast.

        "Hello, friend," Onion's voice greeted Noore.

        "I have caught some fish to be cooked," Noore responded.

        "You are welcome here," Onion encouraged.

        After Noore arrived, the community realized the extent of the
        damage caused by the earthquakes. They gathered in the village
        circle and made plans to relocate.

        They travelled by land to the east for several weeks. When they
        settled along the Great Rift Valley, Onion knew that she would
        have a home here for many years. Large herds of deer and buffalo
        trended by. Many fish wended the cool streams. The villagers had
        appointed Onion's father, Radoni, to provide them with food. He
        was an excellent hunter and fisherman.

        In addition to Noore, four extended families survived. Onion and
        Irene were the only unmarried females of child-bearing age. When
        the community settled, Irene chose to marry Don, whom she had
        known since childhood. Onion was growing closer to Noore.

        Radoni spoke gently to his daughter. He told her that he and her
        mother were growing old. They could not provide for her needs in
        the future. Onion smiled to herself. How comforting that Radoni
        believed in her future. Her mother added that they would help to
        take care of the children.

        Onion laughed. "How do you know I want to have children?"

        "You love children," her mother encouraged Onion's good humor.


       Chapter Three - Onion's Motherhood - 200,075 years ago

        Nira and Rode gratified Onion's mothering needs. Well, Rode did.
        Nira's fierce sense of competition made Onion wonder about their
        relationship. Nira's challenges aroused discomfort in everyone
        except Radoni. He encouraged her to play games and to fish with
        him. Nira beamed at her success in playing games. She inherited
        Noore's muscular body and strong jaw.

        Nira's brother, Rode, had been found during a hunting expedition
        by Noore and Radoni. His mother died soon after giving birth to
        Rode during a lonely journey from the north. Onion and Noore had
        recently lost Android to a fatal blood disorder and they adopted
        Rode without hesitation. Rode, a fair-haired child, grew strong
        and tan in the now sunny skies.

        Irene's sons, Dane and Erik, were excellent companions for Rode.
        Except for Nira's challenges, everyone treated Rode with gentle
        encouragement. Rode admired Radoni and spent many hours learning
        to hunt and fish. Irene and Don agreed to allow their sons to go
        with Rode and Radoni on the expeditions. They had also agreed to
        end their marriage after Irene and Dare made their relationship
        known. Onion's anguish at her secret affair with Rand caused her
        to envy Irene even more.

        Onion's family and friends were celebrating Nira's 9th birthday.
        Rand and his wife and children, Radoni, Gram, Noore, Irene, with
        her two sons, and Onion's elder brother attended.

        "I'm scared." Onion whispered to her brother, Anden.

        "You're scared," Anden said loudly, "how do you think I feel?"

        Onion realized the consequences of her decision to tell Anden
        about her affair with Rand.


       Chapter Four - Onion's New Husband - 200,060 years ago

        Gentle rain cooled the mid-summer air. Onion and Jay had been
        married for less than year. Onion knew that her third marriage
        would be a joyful one. Jay was so different from Noore and Gene.
        Jay was undefeatable. His spirit was lightly humorous and he
        held the same deep respect for God that Onion held. In addition,
        Jay and Radoni held each other in sincere respect. Jay was not
        as wealthy as Noore and not as poor as Gene. Jay was generous
        with his time. He devoted himself to Onion and the children.

        At the same time, Jay was able to discipline the children and
        provide a brave example to them. He was fearless and had been
        injured many times while protecting the children during their
        expeditions. He defended Onion during Nira's emotional bouts,
        without attacking Nira.

        Nira's son, Danny, was four years old. Nira was still a child
        in many ways. Her self-indulgence grew more resistant as Noore
        and Onion attempted to enforce their stoic rules on her. Rode
        was far more supple in his emotional response to Onion. He did,
        however, have a strong temper. Radoni's gentleness prevailed,
        and Rode took the example to heart. In contrast, Nira persisted
        in her challenges to Onion's patience. Nira chose to live with
        Ned, an outcast from his own family. They kept a small puppy
        and kitten for Danny to play with when he visited them.

        Danny, like Rode, attached himself to Radoni. Danny chose to
        live with Gram and Anden. Radoni continued hunting and fishing
        at age 81! Rode spent much of his time with his intended spouse,
        Niger, a lovely girl. Rode and Niger were bold explorers and
        spent many hours searching the forest for hidden treasures.

        Anden, in his mid-fifties, spent much of his time with Danny.
        Danny was a delightful child, harmlessly mischievous, and
        willing to include others in the possession of even his most
        treasured toys.

        "You can have it," were some of Danny's earliest words.

        Offering anyone his well-worn toys, Danny always drew a smile
        on even the most somber of faces.

        Danny's father had been killed while hunting, long before Danny
        was born. Rather than mourn his loss, Danny had a keen sense of
        humor. He called Jay "daddy" and the father of his young friend,
        Reed, "my dad."  Reed's mother, born during the tremors, gave
        birth to a daughter, near the time of Danny's fourth birthday.
        Reed, having lost his only-child status, came to play with Danny
        more often. Jay's children, Mary, age six, and Jay, ten, were
        constant companions. Behaviors imitated by the younger children
        were not always those desired by the adults.


       Chapter Five - Onion's Father as a Young Man - 201,015 years ago

        Radoni was 24 years old. His five brothers and four sisters held
        a party with many friends and family members. Radoni, the eldest
        child, had worked ten long years to feed and clothe his family.
        Their father had been injured then, and Radoni willingly became
        the provider.

        Radoni's brother, Neld, stood up.

        "I wish to honor my brother, Radoni, for taking care of us."

        "Alright, alright," Radoni blushed, "let us eat now."

        Tribes across the Central Divide were rumored to be in battle.
        Radoni's brothers talked of nothing else. They gathered every
        day in the village circle to plan a journey to the north. Many
        of the young men wanted to go in order to detect any fighting
        that might spread south.

        Carrying their weapons and loading the carts and pack animals,
        the men prepared for the dangerous trek. The women gathered and
        wept for their loss. Memories of past battles and so many lives
        shattered by war haunted the elders.

        Again, Neld spoke for the group.

        "I would like to express my gratitude to all who are with us."

        Radoni, recently married, stayed in order to provide the people
        with food and supplies. Radoni's son, Anden, was born within a
        year of the departure.

        A few weeks after the young men departed, travelers from the
        north confirmed the rumors of a battle hundreds of miles north
        of the village. Many tribes sought new territories and revenge
        for conflicts long past. The expanse of the Central Divide and
        the rich northern resources made a southern attack unlikely.

        The conflict ended after several months of destruction. Many
        young men did not return to the village. Those who did return
        spoke of the bravery of their slain comrades. The villagers
        were thankful that the battle had not spread south.

        Onion was born near the time that the survivors returned. Some
        men had severe injuries and the villagers made shelters to care
        for the wounded. The small community expanded as new members,
        displaced by the war, came to reside in the south. Warm climate
        and open lands made the south attractive. Some of the men who
        returned were accompanied by wives they had met in the north.

        The conflict killed two of Radoni's brothers. Two surviving
        brother's married, one to a woman from the north, and one to a
        young woman from a nearby village. The youngest brother had
        stayed in the village and now requested Radoni's permission to
        travel far to the south.

        A celebration was planned and gifts were prepared for the trip
        of Radoni's brother. He was expected to remain in the south and
        to marry a young woman whom he had met during her visit to the
        village.


       Chapter Six - Onion's Childhood - 201,005 years ago

        Radoni's prestige grew as he continued to provide the community
        with needed goods and services. Many of the young adults spoke
        publicly about Radoni contributing to their families during
        their growing years. Onion and Anden admired their father.

        Onion's birth name was Marinde. At age 7 she had a disorder in
        her body's ability to process food. Her shape grew from that of
        a slim child to that of a bulbous onion. She never lost her good
        humor and called herself Onion from that time. The disorder had
        disappeared by Onion's tenth birthday. She spent more time with
        Radoni and with other children. Radoni led the children in their
        games and on expeditions.

        Onion learned to run long distances and to exercise for strength
        by watching Anden and the other children. Radoni organized teams
        and encouraged both boys and girls to play. Children from nearby
        villages joined the games. Radoni watched carefully to see that
        the rules were kept and that the children did not get injured.

        Anden, however, was injured many times during contact games with
        the older boys. At age 13 a front tooth was knocked out, and a
        few years later his nose was broken.

        The northern territorial wars gave the survivors an incentive to
        train the younger men as warriors. When Anden became an adult,
        he was assigned to an outpost northwest of the village. Anden's
        intelligence and physical fitness brought him many rewards as a
        warrior in spite of his small stature. After several months of
        training, Anden returned to the village and resided with Radoni.


       Chapter Seven - Onion's Pregnancies - 200,083 years ago

        The wars had also spawned the health care shelters, and a body
        of knowledge about general treatment of illnesses. After his
        military service, Anden worked and studied at the shelters.

        In the aftermath of the tremors and in the richness of the Rift
        Valley, the small community prospered. Onion and Noore married
        and were soon preparing for the birth of their first child. The
        child was a healthy girl. Onion called her Nira which was the
        name of Noore's mother.

        Two years after Nira's birth, Onion was pregnant with Android.

        "You must eat properly," Gram advised Onion.

        Since her childhood illness, Onion had managed to stay slim and
        physically fit. Gram had gained much extra weight when she was
        pregnant with Onion. Gram was worried that Onion would not eat
        well in order to prevent this. Onion, however, continued in good
        health throughout her second pregnancy.

        When Android was born, Noore named him Andoni after Radoni's
        father. Within six months of his birth, Andoni became severely
        stricken with convulsions. Treatment for the disorder could not
        cure Andoni, however his convulsions were prevented by a strong
        sedative. He remained in a comatose state until his death at age
        three. Onion nicknamed him Android, that is "mechanical doll,"
        since he made no movements at all while sedated.

        Anden continued to work at the health shelters. He discovered by
        speaking with Gram that other children in her ancestry had died
        in early childhood. Noore recalled such disorders from the oral
        histories of his homeland.

        About the time of Android's first birthday, Onion experienced
        severe depressions. She spoke to her brother about wanting to
        end her life. Anden had learned about treatments of the combat
        survivors for such symptoms. He arranged for Onion to be given
        one of these medications at the shelter.

        Onion resumed her distance running, and soon reported to Anden
        that she would not require further treatment. However, she did
        not disclose that Irene and Dare were supplying her with other
        substances which they had purchased during visits in the south.

        Effects from the substances and the burden of Android's disorder
        pressed upon Onion's emotional needs. Her marriage to Noore had
        been troubled by her depression and by Noore's inability to see
        Onion's dependence.

        By the time of Android's second birthday, Onion accepted help in
        the daily burden of caring for him. Gram and Radoni brought the
        child to live with them. Radoni's aged and disabled father also
        lived with Radoni.

       ****************THE PATH TO THE ANAGRAM MESSAGE******************

        The path to the anagram that inspired me started several years
        ago. I was reading the book Whole-Brain Thinking by Jacquelyn
        Wonder and Priscilla Donovan. In the chapter called Suspenders,
        a panel refers to subliminal phrases which helped people to do
        well at dieting, trying to quit smoking and calming thoughts.
        The phrases most helpful were "Mommy and I are one" and "Daddy
        and I are one."

        I chose the phrase "God and I are one." Several years after I
        read the book, I found a computer program which took phrases
        and printed all the anagrams of the phrase. "Android, Age One"
        and the names Onion Deergada and Noore Giandade are anagrams of
        "God and I are one."

       *****************************************************************


       Chapter Eight - Onion's Brother - 200,082 years ago

        Onion's brother, Anden, travelled to many nearby communities to
        work and learn at their shelters. He discovered that many women
        who had survived the conflicts now worked as physicians. One of
        these women, Jessica Lex, had collected a team of workers. She
        offered Anden a place to work in her shelter. Dr. Lex authored
        many references about blood disorders and kept a library filled
        with medical information. Anden spent all of his time working or
        studying.

        Dr. Lex's daughter returned from a work-study session at a large
        city in the north.

        "This is Jaysee," Dr. Lex said.

        "Good to see you," Anden replied. Jaysee was very attractive!

        Dr. Lex had been wounded many times during the conflicts. She
        rescued many people and treated their wounds, often ignoring her
        own. Like many of the survivors, she was thin and tough. Jaysee
        inherited Dr. Lex's toughness, however she chose to study music.

        At their first meeting, Jaysee had not even spoken to Anden! She
        nodded briefly and left the shelter to rest from her journey. At
        the next encounter, she apologized.

        "My mother says that you spend all of your time working."

        Anden could not speak for a few moments, surprised and pleased
        to hear Jaysee's voice.

        "I -um, I do a lot of reading and running. Do you like to jog?"

        Jaysee and Anden agreed to meet at a competitive run a few days
        later.


       Chapter Nine - The Race - 200,081 years ago

        Onion joined Anden and Jaysee at the bottom of a steep grassy
        slope. Many other runners waited for the competition to start.
        All of them were men!

        "Are you sure women are included in this?" Onion asked Anden.

        "Anyone who wants to run can, however ..." Anden looked around.

        "Women are going to run this race!" A thin tough male spoke.

        "We're just beginners," Anden apologized, "we'll run behind the
         other runners so we will not interfere with the competition."

        The race began. About fifty men spurted up the hill. Anden,
        Onion and Jaysee jogged comfortably in their path. At the top,
        all of the other runners were far ahead. A clump of trees just
        beyond the top of the slope introduced the real challenge of the
        race. A steeper slope appeared to go up to the clouds!

        "I can't even see the other runners," Onion despaired.

        "We told them we would run last." Anden doubted.

        Jaysee encouraged them.

        "I have travelled hundreds of miles, this is just a few more."

        Onion laughed. Anden warned Onion and Jaysee to drop out of the
        race if they were too exhausted. Jaysee laughed.

        "We will carry you home, Anden," Jaysee promised.

        Onion ran gently for about eight miles.

        "I am quitting." Onion stopped and sat on the cool damp grass.

        "We'll see you at the finish line," Anden called.

        At eighteen miles, Anden began to limp.

        "I can't run," he stated without emotion, "I have blisters."

        Jaysee stopped. Anden did not want to delay her.

        "No, you can finish the race! Go ahead. I'll be fine."

        All the other runners passed by after the midpoint turn of the
        race. After walking a few miles back down the hill, Anden found
        Onion still sitting in the grass.

        "You have rested enough," Anden tried to be humorous.

        Onion refused to get up. Anden pulled her arm and she stood,
        then sat down again.

        "Come on! Jaysee is waiting for us at the finish line."

        Onion reluctantly reached her hand to the ground. As she lifted
        herself, her finger struck a sharp rock.

        "Aaauuch!," Onion screamed, "I think my finger is broken!"

        "You will heal," Anden retorted, pulling Onion up.


       Chapter Ten - The Funeral and Marriage - 200,080 years ago

        One week before Android's third birthday, his breathing became
        difficult. He had developed a lung infection and was not able to
        resist it. Early in the morning, before daybreak, he died. Onion
        refused to come to Radoni's home to see Android's body.

        "I want to remember him alive," she pleaded.

        Radoni prepared a funeral ceremony early the next day. Onion
        and Noore attended. Nira stayed with Anden at Radoni's home.

        "All gone, Android," Nira observed.

        Anden wept.

        After the burial, Jaysee wanted Anden to walk with her to the
        village circle to buy a gift for Onion. They stopped at a small
        cove near a stream. Jaysee had brought a blanket. They sat on a
        soft grassy plain hidden from the path to the village. Jaysee
        put her hand on Anden's arm. Quietly, they kissed. Comforting
        each other's grief, they made love and held each other weeping.
        They woke hours later and walked to the marketplace.

        "Here is a lovely coat," Jaysee wrapped herself in the garment.

        "It's really nice. Onion will love it," Anden agreed.

        When they returned, Gram was curious.

        "Where have you two been all this time? We were worried!"

        "We're fine," Anden assured, "we bought a fine coat for Onion."

        "That must have cost you too much," Gram offered to pay for it.

        "Don't be silly," Anden resolved, "Jaysee and I are both working
         and we want to do something for Onion ourselves."

        "Well, if you need money later, I'll help you," Gram promised.

        The promise of marriage between Jaysee and Anden was expected by
        everyone. Hundreds of people were invited, including Radoni's
        brother in the south.

        Radoni's brother and his wife brought their child, who was ill.
        Only a few months old, she had difficulty with meals. Jaysee's
        father, also a physician, offered to help.

        Jaysee's father examined the child and found that the tube from
        her throat to her stomach was not formed properly. He performed
        an operation to strengthen the tube and the child grew healthy.


       Chapter Eleven - The Reunion and Remarriage

        Radoni's family and friends gathered together every year. They
        chose a large open area in the middle of the forest. Everyone
        brought food and drinks. Some travelled hundreds of miles from
        north, south and west to attend the reunion.

        Neld, married to a woman from the north, made sketches of the
        scenes and wrote the names of those who attended.

        This year, Onion and Jay celebrated their first anniversary.

        Neld spoke, "Let us all wish Onion and Jay many happy years."

        Onion blushed, "Thank you all for your good wishes."

        Onion and Jay had been married in another part of the forest.
        Jay's daughter, Mary, led Onion's path to a small bridge over a
        stream. Mary carried a basket of flower petals and cast them in
        front of Onion. The preacher stood on the bridge while Onion and
        Jay approached from opposite sides of the stream.

        Family and friends watched from a gentle slope on Jay's side of
        the stream. A small group played songs of love and devotion. The
        preacher spoke to the people.

        "I have been a preacher for thirty years, my dear friends, and
         this is the most beautiful ceremony I have ever seen. May you
         all be blessed by it. And let us pray for the marriage of Jay
         and Onion."

        Radoni stood by the preacher to offer Onion's hand to Jay.

       *****************************************************************

       This ends the current sequel of Onion's life. Please consider a
       gift of $25 or more to help me continue writing.

       Author: Anthony Chipoletti
               2111 Leishman Avenue
               Arnold, PA 15068-2117
               Phone: (412) 337-4781

       *****************************************************************

journals.txt: how to write a short story <he he he>,
              actually this is a VERY confusing log
              of my life before Android, Age One.
              eecummingsfanswillloveit, however if
              you get dizzy reading this, skip it!

JOURNAL started Oct 12, 1991.

In January of 1990 I began a very moderate weight loss program

which has lowered my weight from 185 to 155.

Goal 150 + or - 6 pounds.

Calcium may be OK. Bad water may be cause of pain in back.

Grinding teeth, face pain. Back pain may be cholesterol stones.

On 29 July 1991 after some physical activity and aspirin, ibuprofen

and acetaminophen coupled with no calcium in diet or in supplement

I aggravated my stomach to the point of a hospital visit for

Tagamet. By October 7 I had reversed the condition to a point of

too much calcium by supplement. Bad water heater caused severe pain

in upper right abdomen?

Less pain with lecithin, acetaminophen and canned cherries to put

cholesterol at a lower level. Medical newsletter received

October 12 stated that fat cells during weight loss can release

cholesterol in large amounts before settling to the lowered level

of weight and cholesterol. Also the body may produce cholesterol

for balance when diet is low in fat.

The physical activity included sitting at the computer so that

the back muscles are tense. Also before the stomach problem I

ate some potatoes that were not cooked enough.

Continuing good health care includes acidophilus in supplement

form which stops genital itching, foot fungus and skin on feet

peeling. Peroxide mouthwash about once a week or less coupled

with regular mouthwash used every few hours has reduced

all dental and mouth problems. Quick brushing and flossing after

meals and careful food choices also helps. Antihistamine at the

first sign of problems is preventing mouth problems. Better foot

care including epsom salts and aloe vera liquid soap as well as

alcohol rubs prevent and reverse foot problems.

Increased use of wipes has helped eye care and skin care in

general. Zinc oxide with cod liver oil helped when red spot

developed near groin inside right leg when stones in kidney

were dissolving. Deep sea ocean kelp iodine supplement has

helped prevent chills and hunger with cold weather.

More frequent laundering and bagging dirty laundry during the

week has helped. Also liquid bleach mixed with better

laundry detergents has prevented problems and solved a fungus

or whatever it was in the clothes. Keeping the dirty clothing

bagged and fairly dry while spraying or soaking it with pine

cleaner or baking soda deodorant have been excellent aids.

More frequent changing of furnace air filter and airing of

cellar coupled with rinsing sewer in cellar floor daily with

soapy water while turning on the air and opening cellar door

have combined to make cellar safer.

Oct 13: Improved productivity with computer programming to

achieve stated goals. Goals include balancing and stabilizing

satisfying entertainment and leisure time in home life while

planning work load. Work values consistent with discretionary

freedom, control and personal significance as well as joy and

pride in satisfying employment are current factors in choices

to realize now. Adequate feedback to judge my performance and

personal confidantes who respect and admire me are also goals.

Oct 17: Ate yogurt, ice cream and chocolate in past few days;

sore jaw, gums, toothache and swollen lip, needed antihistamine.

Oct 29: chills and back strain from carrying clothes to extra

role in Lorenzo's Oil, Nick Nolte and Susan Sarandon were there.

Nov 17: Sat-Sun midnight; Sun noon: added note at start of this log.

9 am to 10 am. Man came to my car after check out when shopping

clerk put my batteries in his bag. Ate raspberry non-fat cheese

cake. Ate unsalted saltines. Using Calcium Carbonate after

meals. Open lesion on left corner of upper lip.

Lip lesion may be due to extra betacarotene in diet and capsule.

Early Nov before large storms in east U.S., family members fighting

about using laundry. Tolerating one another today, Sun Nov 17.

Nov 19 See Dec 13 and Dec 2.

Tue. Check-up with doctor. Walked to bus stop. Walked home 1 mile.

Ate Meunster cheese. Strawberry milkshake. Ate lots

of Braunschweiger with cherries, and saltines unsalted tops. Teeth

still sensitive ? outdoor air ? People pleasant. Weather very warm.

10 pm diarrhea from milk products.

Nov 20: Wed 2pm Diarrhea continues and eating milk products continues.

Nov 21 Thur 2am Kids coughing and throwing up. Tim has diarrhea.

I get mucus and irritability late at night, after 10 pm.

BAD WATER HEATER CAUSED THE PROBLEMS, NOT AIR POLLUTION.

Air pollution? Newspaper reported meat packing

in local area? Ashley has constant stomach ache. She

says it happens any time she drinks anything. I gave

her 3 or 4 calcium carbonate tabs=total 600 to 800 mg.

Nov 22 Fri noon: Heavy rains. Irritable with Dad yesterday.

Some back pain. 6pm Eating 2000+ Calories daily. Face pain less,

lip healed. Trigeminal neuralgia appears to be causing

face pain.

Nov 23 Sat 1am Influenza epidemic.

Nov 24 Sun 6am Back pain less, but there.

Nov 26 Tue noon

Very cold weather. Did laundry yesterday. Took out garbage.

Exercised this morning. Ate early in am yesterday and today.

Increased energy during day!

Nov 27 Wed 5am Cold aggravating face pain. Considering dental clinic

in Tarentum. 7pm checkup with Dr. Okobi OK! Dental Clinic on

Dec 10. Food change: meat, tapioca, boiled egg white,

gelatin, vegetables.

Nov 30 Sat 5pm Mouthguard. Pain worse. Calcium=more pain. Sinus pain

started in ragweed season. Anticoags ibuprofin+acet+aspirin

+caffiene+decongestant=relief. Mouthguard trimmed to

fit in right side of mouth=feels good to relieve the

pressure on teeth in upper left jaw. 51 cents till Dec 9.

9pm Called by casting agency for extra role, Bob Roberts at Fulton

Theater Sun Dec 1=$40.

Dec 2 Mon 4pm  Movie was fun but very exhausting. Ate big mac with

apple pie, strawberry shake, chicken sandwich, beef

and veges, cake, apple, pear, donut.

Dec 3 Tue 11pm  Sleeping long hours all day. Eating a lot.

Saw Dr. Gordon. Pain much less. Dr. G Dec 17.

Dec 5 Thu 4pm  25 minute trampoline; got new mouthpiece cut in half

for each side alternating bite to tire clench muscles;

then using presses on bottom and right lower jaw=1, 2, 3

presses then hold for 3 seconds.

Dec 6 Fri 2pm  Updating previous entries to this log. Mouthpieces

easing pain in teeth when anticoags and decongestants are added.

$30 on hand.

Dec 8 Sun 2pm  Received jewelry and electronic assembly offers.

Dec 9 Mon 2pm  Sent $33 jewelry.

Dec 10 Dental exam: cracked filling, cracked tooth. Walked home.

Dec 11 10am  Eating raisin bran, raisin oats+almonds, beef.

Dec 12 Thu 7pm Ashley, Timothy and I walked to the post office.

Later found out that Ashley has chickenpox. Dental work Dec 13 9am.

See Nov 21? Ashley had upset stomach.(3 weeks before pox)

Dec 13 Fri 7pm

See Dec 2: Family members angry, arguing.

Fatigue? Storms?

Dental work filling on cracked tooth, more dentistry next Fri.

Dec 14 Sat 11am

Laundry done, a week past due. Jonathon's birthday party today.

Dec 14 Sat 3pm Andy punching boxers bag in cellar. Laundry done.

Dec 20 9pm Dentist 2 fillings+2 more Dec 30.

Dec 21 2am bellylaughs!

Dec 22 8pm ? Sugar causing pain in teeth at upper left jaw ?

? Allergies ?

Dec 27 10pm Tim and Jon Jr have chickenpox.(See Dec 12 Ashley's pox)

Dec 29 4pm Lump in gums outside tooth in left upper, 3rd existing tooth

counting from back.

Dec 30 1pm Walked home from dentist. 5 fillings total. OK till summer.

Jan 2 4pm  Walked to PO to mail programming kit & lesson 305 pascal.

Jan 5 2am  Wrote letter to Jeanie. Anticoags lessen tooth pain:

Jan 6 10am Healing. Last night 3 Dristan ibuprofn+decongestant.

8pm  Shopped at drugstore. $3 left. Ibuprofen for jaw.

Jan 7 3pm  Lump in gums? trying to callous tooth from pushing at night when

bruxing. Pain lessened by ibuprofen. Nose healed.

Jan 9 3am  Massage gums. Switch back to baking soda toothpaste.

11am Gum lump down. ?Jaw dislocation?

Jan 10 midnight Ruth responded to my ad to sell the deed.

Jan 13 2am ?Gum swelling may be milk products. See Oct 17, 1991.

Jan 14 4am Gums allergic reaction?

tue 9am Wind, hunger. $15 left. Cobol lessons arrive.

9pm Back totally healed. Stop all milk products.

Jan 15 6am Last two programming lessons sent. 4 kits to go.

Wednesday, Snow, cold weather. Sent Consumer fee.

Jan 16 5am Gums feel good!

Jan 17 8am Gums sore. Eating tapioca with skim milk component.

Jan 18 10am Stop all milk and grain! Gum lump is allergy!

Jan 21 tue Movie on TV Against Her Will, Matthau, Morgan; Cobb's Law.

midn to 1 am  Gum healing. Fast from milk, grain. Add crackers, chromium.

11pm Body temperature stable, warm. Appetite control restored.

Jan 22 10pm $12 left. Weather warmer.

Jan 23 11am Laundry. Weather wet. 18 days laundry to laundry too long.

Jan 25 4am Sat got C kit on Fri Jan 24. $4 left. Tim has diaper rash.

10pm Tim having great difficulty with toilet training? $14 left.

Invent potty with video games attached!

Jan 26 3pm Stop all milk and milk products for Tim to toilet train.

$4 left. Sunday using calcium carbonate. Mouth healing.

1pm Rash may be excess Calcium. C kit mailed. $3 left/13 days.

11pm Salt water rinse after brushing teeth.

Jan 30 9am Finished earrings for Lucille to give to Elaine.

Thursday Big Jonathan has pylodinal cyst requiring surgery.

1pm Got newsletter from homeworker Al Lopresti. Got no info nor any

income from home work companies. Except thanks from Lu & Jon on earrings.

mon feb 3 at 2 pm log entry

deleted depressing entry about money gave earrings to angie enjoy writing

like eecummings got work at home kits and c kit grade 100.

tue feb 4 log entry angry at lucille over tiny letter hidden behind post at

mailbox at 4 pm biorythym physical high eyes swollen in am after eating lots

saltines the night before emotional intellectual lows some aerobics

6pm wyep portuguese angolan music bonga

wed feb 5 log entry face still hurts maybe wheat

thu feb 6 2pm made 2 pair earrings in one day lu gave one pair to vicki

7pm changed food see grocery list below:

chicken, turkey, beef, ham, yam, carrots, pea, beet, asparagus, pinto,

spinach, lima, apple, pear, apricot, peach, berry, cocktail

fri feb 7 11am face feels a little better stop eating fat in pork and beans

stop tea with sugar and caffiene clogging arteries bowels and nose body cold

appetite solving chills problem see jan 21 bowel movements preceded by chills

sat feb 8 8pm shopping at super market, took lecithin for ear sounds

10am bought food on healthlog grocery list and wipes for two days

EXPECTED COBOL KIT FEB 20; arrived feb 13.

mon feb 10 11am shopping done garbage done high energy third day of no grain

milk nor milk products sunday ate yams carrots peas ham apples much turkey

beans without pork used tea + sugar and caffiene hot water

mon 7pm face pain severe slight diahhrea lump back at side of tooth lump

appears to be bleeding as do lips from excess vitamin a beta carotene+sugar?

muscle cramps in sleep sugar?

6pm 2nd day without sugar 4th day no grain no milk chromium+actifed 6:30pm

walked to post office 9am electrician put in new fuse box, tim threw up 11am

sat feb 15 1am gums feel better with lower calories + chromium antihistamine

decongestant sleepy dry skin dripping nose also added sun noon irritable

7pm kids misbehaving maybe they need more exercise outdoors jogging games

sun feb 16 3am 23 days since laundry

midnight to noon andy lucille mom doing laundry lu since fri michelle usually

weekends mom during week andy late at night eat my meals early am then bathe

a few hours later evenings rest and program computer m w f trampoline for

one half hour at 5pm eat meals at 9am fruit noon eat yams  meat  vegetables

do laundry more often in smaller loads

11 pm reviewed debug/assembly using msdos debug program

midnight did shirts clothes in dryer too tired lu and jon playing rock music

mon feb 17 1am listening to word-fm schedule to bathe daily 11am after bm

noon garbags recycle taken am ate 5 granola bars in warm water applesauce

pinto beans feel good took chromium actifed multivit acidophilus cleaned yard

8pm tim has very painful earache washed it with warm water from baby wipe and

gave big jon peroxide + water + qtip tim yelling not to touch his ear little

jon says tims ear is feeling good tim came up to play with the computer!!!

wed feb 19 3pm lucille very ill coughing went to doctor got prescription

thu feb 20 noon, man called to ask if i got computer info just then mom

picked up the phone i said "i got it" mom hung up and the man said "great"

two birds with one ?????

preacher on the radio saying "God has a plan for you" "God does not give you

a road map just perfect freedom to seek God to guide you in God's Way and

miracles visions which must be checked out and by God's Word to be a Lamp

unto your feet and by Providence God shows provides "pro video" to see ahead

of time open door and personal healing by God's Spirit leading you and others

like a gentle dove and by God's Wisdom

FRI FEB 21 MIDNIGHT 1AM LISTENING TO GAY TALESE ON LARRY KING BOOK UNTO THE

SONS TOWN IN ITALY CALLED NICASTRO.

2pm found missing colon in path to dcom updated disks tim to doctor augmentin

sat feb 22 9am went shopping for mouthwash flushable wipes saltines

4pm angry with ashley coughing all night bothering everyone slams toilet seat

?chromium and antihist?low blood sugar?

9pm 15 minute trampolne 5pm feel great! ate pm ham saltines

sun feb 23 4pm lump gone took chromium only two tabs with meal feel great!!!

tim feeling good mom has toothache says its a cavity

mon feb 24 1am crackers meat corn cake + chromium irritability & lump gone

feel good moms tooth ok after my anticoag + caffiene needs filling

7am programmed c all night keyofc hex readkey € ? from keyboard ?

decimal 128 blackbeard special character generator on miscellaneous menu

7pm tax $50 small appliance covers?

tue feb 25 10am shareware and covers sent $6 left

wed feb 26 1pm ? not very much mail ?

thu feb 27 4pm mom has chills coughing

fri feb 28 11am mom feeling better

2pm tim has rash over his body called citizens emergency mom going to the

emergency room herself later tim is fine just needed to stop augmentin

11pm mom has bronchitis and ear infection antibiotic and sudafed

sun mar 1 Leap Year 3pm changed furnace filter tim has hiccups

mon mar 2 noon mailed computer operator application picture and resume

garbage out yard cleaned walked to post office chromium no food

far upper gum lump receding lump near tooth gone several days pain less

10pm emptied vacuum sweeper this afternoon lump on neck evening angel food

11pm ate yogurt raspberry applesauce fresh orange crackers

tue mar 3 noon programmed rensub.com using debug unassembled from compute mag

mr geier wiring cellar need grounded outlet for air conditioner

11pm went to cannery kmart book toilet train stop milk stop tea get drinks in

bottles get potty tim can manage in kitchen assembly language book old

cannery takes food stamps applesauce 20 cents

wed mar 4 noon sleepy back healed gums mildly sore

4pm mom washed potty and got doll for tim to toilet train

thu mar 5 4pm sent dbg/asmbly kit went to post office with tim cobol kit=100

fri mar 6 midnight to 1 am this is michalangelos birthday virus day

sat mar 7 midnight to 1 am printer offer

8pm mom got very upset with tim and me over his cloth training pants full of

poop this seems to be a reaction to the raised expectations of the book train

for one day and the problems tim presents

8am garbage out of bag in yard from ? dog

7pm tim fell asleep 6pm to 7pm washed shirts 5pm

mon mar 9 3am washed clothes took out garbags in am bought food at cannery

2pm tim got exam and medicine for ear problems nfd milk evap milk

got several tooth and mouth remedies all at once caused reduction in gum flap

which may have been there forever but slightly swollen now small sore spot on

tongue left side near sore tooth

1pm bought books no extra money till may

fri mar 13 11pm received small appliance cover kit spent all of last two days

playing computer game, beat the highest score tonight documented every

level up to 18

sat mar 14 6am estimate $375/month cover income @ one per day

sun mar 15 8am estimate $45 to start small appliance covers details not too

clear about how to sew

mon mar 16 midn to 1am level 22

9pm finished level called sis at pic about job

called left message for eric, tim crying about mom

shutting tv to sleep she says she is sleepy ?? i am not babysitting at night

will call fabrics to price quilted fabric and batting and tape etc

tue mar 17 st patricks day called joann -$60 for fabric batting tape & floss

per unit income +$180 net for 9 items -$60 @ 1 item per day $360 per month

7pm visited some stores bought lawnmower shareware copies and book jobs 90

called little sue about sewing seams she will visit thu am

wed mar 18 5am 60 inch wide fabric ?$7.34/yard garbags in cellar work room

10pm got a call from nancy mosser cant go meeting sue tomorrow

thu mar 19 9am finished documentation of all 25 levels at the

highest scores, sue couldnt come today

mom aggravated, left message with sue's son: the job would cost too much

fri mar 20 8am calculated wipes per day peroxide in ear drops in eye get pain

relief for eye dad and lu and jon could not drive me to movie set

11pm tim played on computer also ashley and jonathon 23 wipes per day

fri mar 20 1am beans beans beans

sun mar 22 7am received stuff secret code program tim played games

3pm stuck on level 16

mon mar 23 1pm to 2pm lucille ill and screaming at ashley and jonathon in her

hoarse voice big jon very ill says he feels like someone beat him up his back

hurts diahhrea tim is at dr ashe for checkup got another rash with second 

type of medicine third bottle two old one new ear infection

tue mar 24 1pm tim has erythromycin coughing lucille coughing every 30 seconds

mom bought garbage bags i think dad hit a long shot got all 20 levels

wed mar 25 5pm interview johnstown voc rehab civil service bus $35 + ?

thu mar 26 11am tim drinking tyler mountain water pooped twice this morning

5pm tim fell while playing with upright vacuum may have bumped hip rear 

fri mar 27 midn to 1am tim threw up tonight and pooped again mom is giving

him nonfat dry milk someone bought tim a new pot to poop and pee in

5pm received pcutility mom yellin at tim worried about warmth of soup 

sat mar 28 9pm absolute max scores backed up disks johnstown ate

ice cream hot chocolate milk bars iodine kelp supplement got angry at

jon and ashley about tv loud and messy livingroom and aggravating mom and tim

wed apr 1 interview johnstown voc rehab civil service tim and two fellows

9pm hilda brought drapery and clothing for lucille denise called no one home

car returned walked home from days inn 3pm slept 4pm to 8pm tim with michelle

dad borrowed $100 from dominos pizza $7 left gave dad the money from rental

thu apr 2 9pm bought air filters nk $10 left 6 days sent names to johnstown

fri apr 3 1pm pittsburgh & phila voc rehab domestic relations apr 29 9:30 am

7pm $12 left tim had xrays for sinus infection dr ashe gave him amoxil

sat apr 4 1am clocks spring forward 2am sun backed up disks at midn-1am sat

9pm moved clock forward one hour worked late sat-sun slept in sun am

9pm shopped $15 took garbags out got disk catlog

tue apr 7 7pm received another wrong book from computer book club msdos 5.0

11pm legs swollen at ankles ate macaroni late at night used small salt paks

sat apr 11 1am yelled at kids broke/fixed tims toy siren car $22 left

sun apr 12 9pm worked out last night lying on bed legs in air bicycling

free bus trips to pittsburgh commdisk in good shape

mom had tooth pulled seemed very much better not as irritable out of control

thu apr 16 5am still no questionaire on top level menu sent letter & messages

went to kings with mom after shopping at midnight $19 left

fri apr 17 3pm still no bbs over a week now easter? forget it $21 left

tim hurt his ear up at night stomach upset played calmed down feels ok

sat apr 18 1am still no bbs i will try to stop sending or receiving for now

4am creating batch files to check disks and list contents to a file fun fun

Dot came to dinner mom made lamb ham chicken cake jello carrot pinapl

sat apr 25 2pm user password update $29 to apr 23 -$20 est download $19 cash

that leaves no money till may or ?

noon garbags out mailed disk and freeware catalog request and have $4 left

wed mar 6 2am stomach upset pain emotional and physical ate pint of ice cream

mon may 11 1am downloaded several useless games lu and jon

painted kitchen i was dizzy did not eat sunday ate too much saturday moms

birthday mon noon garbags out found univ of alabama at birmingham bbs on the

wildcat list in GEnie

sun may 17 5pm backed up disk library cleaning files alabamau bbs downloads

tue may 19 7am logged genie $7 aprox lost file aprox $3 bbsrt files 6pm sore

throat pittsburgh may 29 reviewed logs found entries for

multivitmin chromium antihist salt water acidophilus remember fungus in cellar

after bug spray in closed store room baking soda? kelp+iodine ? liver ?

beets ? spinach ?

sat may 30 2pm  ?

wed jun 10 3pm trip to phila yesterday lot of vit C gums shredded irritable

jun 25 thu 5pm stopped eating crackers jaw gum problem got a lot easier to

handle however now eating crackers gum flap is enlarging pain a little worse

certified movie patron count ???

jul 2 thu 1am  7 days $4 super organized disks 60mb plus mfrs orig 44 disks

voc rehab blind deaf pgh interview jun 30; jul 1 okla alabama genie locals

jul 18 sat 3pm 6 days $9 found treetop program and tinyword and lync and many

good programs including anagram an inspiration to write Android: Age One

jul 21 tue 2pm 3 days $2 started Android: Age One. Android, Age One is a story

of a small community of people who survive a natural catastrophe. The events

take place about 100,000 years ago. Two women, Irene Adandogo and Onion

Deergada, are the only fertile females in the group.

snow storm the largest recorded and lowest barometric pressure this century.

many people died over 200 in about a week. many crops destroyed.

march 25, 1993  180 pounds no laundry for many weeks no clean shirts drawers

april 4, 1993 found oeri dept of education bbs tim used abc-talk to learn to

spell and many games with math and alphabet learning.

END OF JOURNAL

       Author: Anthony Chipoletti
               2111 Leishman Avenue
               Arnold, PA 15068-2117
               Phone: (412) 337-4781
