Ergonomics and Human Factor Engineering The word “ergos” means work and “nomos” means natural laws. Ergonomics is the branch of science which deals with the study of factors that provides comfort to the human being with their working environment. As the human body is capable of doing various tasks that includes interacting with the system e.g. cooking in home, working in factory etc. Now the ergonomics is dealing to provide better contact between the system and human body. Its examples include designing of a car seat which requires appropriate data of population upon which it will be designed because if it is designed on average person’s height than it would be difficult for taller people to sit in the car. In 90s, the data collected from different firms of US shows that the companies spent huge amounts on the rehabilitation of injured workers and those injuries are due to lack of proper design. Therefore, proper ergonomic design is necessary to reduce injuries and diseases like Carpal Tunnel Syndrome (which is due to forceful repetitive motion of hand e.g. butchering a piece of meat) that can lead to permanent disability. The main purpose of ergonomics is to fulfill two goals i.e. health and productivity. Therefore, “Ergonomics” require best coalition of both engineering and medical sciences. Its principle is widely used in various industries like aerospace, automotive, health and care, transportation, Information Technology etc. To stand in a competitive environment every organization wants to maximize their productivity by utilizing their staff efficiently. And for this reason, ‘Time and Motion Study’ has been applied to cut-down unnecessary steps and actions during work. This was experimentally shown by Lillian Gilbreth (pioneer of time and motion study and a renowned industrial engineer) when she applied in the production of brickwork which reduced the actions from 18 to 4.5 and that in turn increases their productivity from 120 to 350 bricks per hour. Hence it cannot only increase the efficiency but also provides friendly working environment. Now-a-days, no organization wants to spend a lot of money in recovery of their injured worker rather prevent them from working in hazardous environment. Ergonomics in the workplace has to do largely with the safety of employees. It can reduce cost by improving safety and this would decrease the cost of compensation paid to workers. For example, over 5 million workers sustain injuries of overextension per year. With the help of ergonomics, workplaces are designed to prevent overextension and the company could save million. Therefore, special trainings are carried out and proper systems are used. Standard Operating Procedures ( SOPs) are made individually by companies to carry out those regular tasks according to the described procedures. Since everyone have to follow that procedure and therefore prevent from accidents and injuries. Similarly Permit to Work (PTW) system is also applied for the execution of hazardous jobs/ tasks. LOTO (Lock-out and Tag out) and Zero Access system are widely used where workers have to interact with the machines. Two approaches of ergonomics are mainly used: 1. Reactive ergonomics 2. Proactive ergonomics Reactive ergonomics is the process when something needs to be fixed and corrective action should be taken prior to any accident while Proactive ergonomics deals with finding the areas where they can be improved and fixing them before they become a large problem. These are basic applications of ergonomics.